Queen Sansa Stark is the eldest daughter of Lord Eddard Stark and his wife, Lady Catelyn, sister of Robb, Arya, Bran, and Rickon Stark, and "half-sister" of Jon Snow; though truthfully is his cousin.
Initially betrothed to Prince Joffrey Baratheon, the heir to the Iron Throne, Sansa travels to King's Landing in preparation for her nuptials, but essentially becomes a hostage of House Lannister following the execution of her father on trumped-up charges of treason. Under the (sometimes unwitting) tutelage of Cersei Lannister, Margaery Tyrell, and Petyr Baelish, Sansa becomes well-versed in politics and court intrigue, but suffers all the same.
Even after escaping the capital and returning to her childhood home of Winterfell, she endures further hardship at the hands of House Bolton. After escaping from Winterfell with the help of her father's former ward, Theon Greyjoy, and her sworn-sword, Brienne of Tarth, Sansa reunites with Jon at Castle Black. Along with the support of the Free Folk, the knights of the Vale, and certain Northern houses, the two of them retake Winterfell from Ramsay Bolton, and Sansa becomes the Lady of Winterfell, whilst Jon is declared King in the North.
Displeased at Jon for abdicating his title in favor of House Targaryen, she finds enmity with Queen Daenerys, who refuses to accept Northern independence in her restoration and quest for the Iron Throne. Following the Battle of King's Landing and Daenerys's subsequent assassination, Sansa declares the North an independent kingdom and is later crowned Queen in the North.
A young Sansa being tutored by Septa Mordane.
Sansa Stark is the eldest daughter and second child of Lady Catelyn and Lord Eddard Stark, the Warden of the North.
Sansa was born and raised at Winterfell. She has an older brother, Robb, two younger brothers, Bran and Rickon, a younger sister, Arya, and a "bastard half-brother" Jon Snow, with whom she had a distant relationship due to her mother's influence (which, like her mother, Sansa later regretted). Sansa enjoys proper "lady-like" pursuits and is good at sewing, embroidering, poetry, singing, dancing, literature, etiquette, history, and music. When she was young she dreamed of being a queen like Cersei Lannister, and that just like in the epic songs she would meet her knight in shining armor. She has inherited her mother's Tully coloring, and Lady Catelyn thought Sansa will be even more beautiful than she was when she was younger. She is often seen in contrast with her sister Arya, who has neither her looks nor her accomplishments in feminine activities and comportment.
Sansa is given praise by Septa Mordane after exceeding in her sewing abilities, in contrast to her sister Arya, who finds this tedious and difficult.
Sansa and her family await the Baratheon entourage.
When her brothers find an orphaned litter of direwolf pups, Sansa adopts the gentlest one and names her Lady. King Robert Baratheon visits Winterfell to offer Sansa's father the position of Hand of the King. Robert also offers to betroth his son Joffrey to Sansa. Sansa, who is very taken with the handsome young prince, thinks this is a splendid notion. She longs for the excitement of the capital and begs her parents to agree to the match until they do so. Eddard takes the office of Hand and decides to take his daughters with him to the capital.
Sansa with her direwolf, Lady.
At the Inn at the Crossroads beside the Kingsroad, Joffrey offers to walk Sansa along the riverbank after the disquieting experience of meeting Ser Ilyn Payne, the king's headsman. They find Arya practicing her swordsmanship with Mycah, a butcher's son, and Joffrey starts to hurt him for acting above his station and striking a girl of noble blood. Arya strikes Joffrey, and when the prince threatens her with his sword, Arya's direwolf, Nymeria, intervenes and bites Joffrey's arm. Arya and Mycah flee and Joffrey cries before snapping at Sansa to get him help. Sansa is taken before Robert and his retainers and asked to corroborate Joffrey's claim, that he was the victim of an unprovoked attack. Arya tells her to tell the truth, but to Arya's fury, Sansa is worried about upsetting her betrothal with Joffrey, so she says that it happened too fast for her to know. Cersei orders that Arya's direwolf be executed for harming Joffrey, but when the direwolf cannot be found, she suggests that Sansa's own direwolf Lady be substituted for Nymeria. Sansa and Arya are horrified Lady will be killed and protest. Eddard, furious with Robert for agreeing to this, carries out the execution himself, to Sansa's anguish.
Sansa dines in King's Landing.
Arriving in King's Landing, Sansa's enmity towards Arya and her father continues. Eddard fails to mollify Sansa by buying her a doll as she had outgrown dolls. Eddard explains to Arya that Sansa could not defy Joffrey or go against his version of events if Sansa wished to maintain his goodwill in marriage.
Sansa meets Littlefinger.
Septa Mordane shows Sansa the throne room of the Red Keep as part of a history lesson, and she realizes that her grandfather and uncle were killed there by the Mad King. Sansa is fearful that she will not be able to give Joffrey sons, only daughters like her friend Jeyne Poole's mother, but Mordane doesn't think this likely. At the Hand's tournament, Sansa witnesses the Mountain killing Ser Hugh of the Vale during a joust. Littlefinger tells Sansa about how Gregor burned the face of his brother, the Hound, when they were very young. Sandor is Joffrey's bodyguard and Littlefinger advises against repeating the story to Sandor.
Sansa attends the Tourney and cheers for Ser Loras Tyrell.
Sansa is given a flower by Ser Loras Tyrell, the famous Knight of the Flowers, before his tilt with Ser Gregor Clegane. He gives the flower to Sansa, but he is looking at Renly who is sitting behind her. She witnesses him defeating Gregor, and Gregor's subsequent furious attack on him, which is halted only by the intervention of Sandor. She joins the smallfolk in applauding Sandor's actions.
Joffrey's gift to Sansa.
Sansa and Septa Mordane are embroidering, and Sansa speaks very rudely to her. Joffrey visits Sansa and gives her a present, a pendant identical to Cersei's. He also apologizes for the incident on the Kingsroad and kisses her, winning back her favor, as well as expressing his fondness towards their marriage and Sansa's future as Queen. Unbeknownst to Sansa, this was done at the suggestion of Cersei, who had recently informed Joffrey that the North must be kept under their control through his marriage to Sansa. Sansa is later told by her father that he is sending her and Arya back to Winterfell, and her betrothal to Joffrey is to be broken. Sansa refuses to accept this. She tells them that she loves Joffrey, she will be his queen and give him beautiful blonde-haired children. Sansa says Joffrey will be a great king and a golden lion. When Arya points out that Joffrey isn't a lion, but a stag like his father, Sansa angrily says Joffrey is nothing like Robert. This inadvertently leads Eddard to realize that Joffrey and his siblings are not Robert's true children. Eddard tells Sansa and Arya that they are returning to Winterfell, over Sansa's furious protests.
King Robert dies following a hunting accident, and Eddard attempts to reveal the truth about Joffrey to prevent him from taking the throne. Eddard is betrayed by Littlefinger, his guards are killed and he is arrested. Eddard's retinue at the Red Keep is slaughtered by Lannister guardsmen led by Sandor. Mordane moves to confront the Lannister soldiers while telling Sansa to lock herself in their rooms. Sansa is taken into custody by Sandor and brought to Cersei.
Sansa is humiliated by Joffrey in front of the Royal Court.
She pleads for her father's cause, insisting that a mistake has been made, and proclaims her own loyalty. Cersei says that she will believe Sansa is loyal on the condition that Sansa writes to Robb, asking him to bend the knee and swear fealty to Joffrey. The letter is unsuccessful and instead, Robb raises an army and marches south to relieve the Riverlands from the Lannister armies. Sansa again pleads for mercy and for her father's life, this time in front of the entire court, and Joffrey agrees to give Eddard mercy if he admits his wrongdoing and acknowledges Joffrey as the true king. Sansa says that she is sure he will.
Sansa watches as her father is executed.
At his trial, Eddard Stark acknowledges his "crimes" and swears loyalty to King Joffrey. To Sansa's utter shock and horror, Joffrey nevertheless orders to execute her father. Distraught, Sansa is screaming and forcibly restrained. Despite her increasingly hysterical pleas for mercy for her father, Ser Ilyn Payne nonetheless carries out the execution with the Starks' own family greatsword, Ice, prompting Sansa to faint in horror.
Days later, Sansa is in court and watches as Joffrey orders the removal of the tongue of the singer Marillion, who has written a song unfavorable to the royal family. Joffrey then takes Sansa to the traitor's walkway, where the severed heads of executed criminals are mounted on spikes along the castle walls. He draws Sansa's attention to the severed heads of her father and Septa Mordane and forces her to look at them.
Joffrey forces Sansa to look upon the severed head of her father.
Sansa refuses to give Joffrey the satisfaction of seeing her upset and shows no emotional response. Joffrey tells her that executing Eddard was showing mercy, as he gave him a quick death, and he suggests that he will mount her brother Robb's head on the wall after defeating him. Sansa retorts that maybe Robb will take Joffrey's head instead. Furious, Joffrey has Ser Meryn Trant of the Kingsguard strike her. Joffrey tells Sansa that they are still to be married. Sansa contemplates pushing Joffrey off the walkway but is discreetly stopped by Sandor. After Joffrey and Meryn leave, Sandor gives her a cloth to attend to her cut lip and tells her that she will be needing it again.
Sansa remains a captive.
Sansa remains a captive of Queen Regent Cersei in King's Landing. She has learned to feign loyalty to Joffrey to avoid further abuse from him. She attends Joffrey's name day tournament and convinces him to spare Ser Dontos Hollard when he attends drunk.
Sansa is tormented by Joffrey.
Sansa is forced to sit through the Lannisters discussing killing her brother Robb over dinner. She vents her frustration on her new handmaid Shae. When Robb wins a crushing victory at the Battle of Oxcross, Joffrey responds by having Sansa stripped and beaten in front of the court. Tyrion intervenes and offers to end her engagement to Joffrey, but she retains her facade of loyalty, impressing the Imp.
Sansa is almost raped.
Sansa attends the departure of Princess Myrcella Baratheon for Dorne. She stands up to Joffrey when he mocks his brother Tommen for crying. As the royal party returns to the Red Keep, Joffrey is struck by excrement thrown by the angry crowd. Joffrey causes a citywide riot by demanding that his guards kill all of the smallfolk present. In the chaos, Sansa is separated from the rest of the group and as she tries to flee to safety, she is pursued by a group of men who nearly rape her. She is rescued by the Hound, just as Tyrion is in the process of browbeating Joffrey for losing her in the first place. Shae treats her injuries and Sansa confides she thought the rioters were going to kill her, observing how they hated her and wonders why they would hate a stranger so much. Shae replies it is because Sansa has more than they will ever have, that her horse eats better than their children. Sansa says she would have given them food if she had it and she too hates Joffrey more than anyone. Shae warns her not to say such things and to trust no-one.
Cersei and Sansa chat following Sansa's first "flowering."
Sansa has a nightmare that she is being stabbed by her attackers from the riots. She wakes up to find her mattress bloodied by the onset of her first period. Shae tries to help Sansa conceal the evidence as it means she is ready to bear Joffrey's children. The Hound catches them and (reluctantly) informs the Queen. Cersei gives Sansa advice on motherhood, reassuring her that even if she never loves Joffrey, she will love her children with him. However, Cersei tells Sansa not to love anybody except for her children, "The more people you love, the weaker you are."
Sansa during the Battle of the Blackwater.
Stannis Baratheon sails his fleet into the bay outside King's Landing, triggering the Battle of the Blackwater. Sansa is summoned to the throne room to say goodbye to Joffrey. He forces her to kiss his new sword and she subtly undermines his bravado. She then takes refuge in Maegor's Holdfast with Shae where Cersei is hosting the women of the court there. Cersei mocks Sansa's faith and reveals Ilyn Payne is present to kill them all if the walls are breached. She drunkenly advises Sansa to use her sexuality as a weapon. Eventually, Cersei storms out, believing the battle lost. Sansa attempts to keep the morale of the women up with prayers and singing.
Later, Shae tells Sansa to return to her chambers and bar her door to keep her safe should Stannis breach the keep. Sansa finds Sandor waiting for her inside. He tells her that he is going north and offers to take her with him. She is reluctant to leave the potential safety of being rescued by Stannis but he warns her that all men are killers. Stannis's force is ultimately defeated by a host of House Lannister and House Tyrell reinforcements led by Tywin Lannister.
Sansa attends court as Joffrey doles out rewards. Tywin is named Savior of the City and Hand of the King, Petyr Baelish is made Lord of Harrenhal and Loras Tyrell is allowed to name a favor from the king. He asks Joffrey to marry his sister Margaery. Joffrey asks Margaery if this is what she wants while Cersei looks at Sansa deviously.
Sansa revels in Margaery's engagement to Joffrey.
Joffrey says that he would be honored to return Margaery's love, but regrets that he is promised to Sansa. Cersei suggests Joffrey set Sansa aside because of her family's treachery. Joffrey accepts the betrothal. Joffrey states that he will adore her from this until his last day - the same endearment he once offered Sansa. Sansa turns away, feigning sadness but allowing herself laughter once she has privacy.
Petyr warns Sansa of her lack of protection.
Sansa's revelry is halted by Petyr consoling her; she pretends to be upset. Petyr crushes her hopes of freedom and warns her that her situation has worsened, as she will no longer have the token protection of becoming Joffrey's queen but will remain his captive. Petyr tells her that she reminds him of her mother and vows to help her return home. Sansa is reluctant to trust him and maintains her facade.
Sansa debates the value of truth.
Sansa and Shae sit on the docks watching ships arrive and depart. Sansa wants to play a game making up stories about where the ships are headed, but Shae, in typical fashion, is uninterested. Sansa tells Shae that she enjoys the game because the truth is either "terrible or boring." Baelish arrives and tells Sansa of a new role that he has taken which will allow him to leave King's Landing, and offers to smuggle her out of the city. She is hesitant about the idea.
Sansa confides in Margaery and Olenna Tyrell.
Sansa discusses the possibility of Littlefinger being in love with her, but Shae warns her that Baelish is manipulative and men usually want "one thing" from young ladies. Margaery and her grandmother Olenna Tyrell invite her to lunch in the gardens, where they ask her about Joffrey, after being escorted by her chambers by Loras. Sansa is initially too fearful to speak the truth, but eventually breaks down, her eyes blazing, and angrily recounts how Joffrey had said he would show her father mercy, only to behead him in front of her, and how he then took her up to the wall and forced her to look at her father's head on a spike. Sansa nervously attempts to backtrack, but Olenna tells her that they will never betray her confidence. Sansa admits that Joffrey is a "monster."
While the daughter and sister of traitors, Sansa is a very valuable hostage. If Robb Stark dies, she becomes "the key to the North" as the Lady of Winterfell, greatly increasing the power of whichever house she marries into. To prevent Littlefinger from gaining power, Varys suggests to Olenna that a Tyrell marry Sansa.
Margaery fills Sansa's head with Highgarden.
While she prays at the Red Keeps's godswood under guard, Margaery comes and talks to her, telling her that they should see Highgarden, the Tyrell home, together. Sansa replies that Cersei would never allow her to leave King's Landing. Margaery tells her that she could be wife to her brother, and this idea pleases Sansa.
In the castle gardens, Sansa and Margaery watch Loras spar with his squire. Sansa confidently remarks on his fighting ability, and inquires when she and Loras will wed, as per the Tyrell plot to keep her out of the hands of Baelish and/or the Lannisters. Margaery replies that she will "plant the seed" of the idea after she and Joffrey are married. Sansa is skeptical Joffrey will let her go but Margaery is confident he will do it to please her, once she is his wife. However, Loras begins a sexual relationship with his squire, whom he tells of his engagement. Olyvar then passes that information on to his employer: Littlefinger. A short time later, Littlefinger meets with Sansa, offering her a place on his ship that will take him from the capital to the Vale of Arryn. Sansa practices lying for a change, and tells him that they should wait until after Joffrey's wedding, primarily because she fears for his safety if the plan fails. A master manipulator, Littlefinger is clearly suspicious of her motives, but doesn't press the matter for the moment. Instead, he says he is touched by her concern for his safety, and insists that she call him "Petyr."
The plan to wed Sansa to Loras fails when Cersei grows increasingly suspicious of the Tyrells and learns of the proposed marriage between Loras and Sansa through Petyr Baelish. This news prompts Tywin to arrange for Cersei to marry Loras and Tyrion to marry Sansa in order to curb the ambitions of House Tyrell and to bind two of the other great houses of the Seven Kingdoms closer to the Lannisters.
Sansa fawns over Loras.
Still unaware of this plan, Loras and Sansa spend more time together in the following weeks, though Sansa is far more enthusiastic about their impending marriage than he is. Loras admits he's always wanted a big wedding with many guests, fancy food, and a good tournament, though he only seems to remember that there will be a bride when Sansa gives him an expectant look. One subject where they do find common ground is their shared hatred of King's Landing, with Loras declaring the capital to be "the most terrible place there is."
Tyrion decides he might as well dash Sansa's hopes sooner rather than later. He goes to Sansa's chamber and asks for a private word, but Sansa declines to dismiss Shae. Tyrion gives Shae a carefully coded apology for not telling her in private before breaking the news to Sansa. As she watches Littlefinger's ship depart for the Vale of Arryn, Sansa is devastated to realize that both of her chances to leave King's Landing have gone, and she has no choice but to marry into the family that killed her father and is keeping her hostage.
Sansa walks with Margaery Tyrell.
Margaery consoles her that Tyrion might be able to make her happy, given his skill as a lover. She concedes that there are worse Lannisters she could be wed to. Margaery informs Sansa of the variety of a woman's sexual interests, which baffles Sansa, asking if her mother taught her these things. Playing on Sansa's innocence, Margaery replies "Yes, sweet girl, my mother taught me."
Tyrion speaks with Sansa before their wedding at the Great Sept of Baelor; though he knows the girl is not thrilled at the prospect of marrying him. Tyrion promises Sansa that he will not mistreat her, and Sansa agrees there are worse Lannisters she could be wed to.
Sansa is wed to Tyrion Lannister.
The ceremony is a grim affair; Joffrey smugly escorts Sansa to the altar in place of her father and petulantly removes the stool upon which Tyrion was to stand on to cloak Sansa in Lannister colors as part of the ceremony, eliciting snickers from the congregation (though the scowl of Lord Tywin quickly silences them). Tyrion in the face of humiliation asks Sansa to kneel and he places the cloak around her shoulders. The new High Septon begins the ceremony. Later as man and wife they have their reception dinner, which also proves a grim and miserable affair.
Sansa grimly sits at her wedding table.
Tyrion then spends the wedding feast becoming steadily drunker, annoying Sansa, who asks if he will pardon her from their table, which he does. Against Cersei's ineffectual protests, Joffrey follows Sansa and taunts her that she finally found a way to marry a Lannister and soon she will have a Lannister baby. Joffrey ponders that it doesn't really matter which Lannister gets her pregnant and asks if she would like it if he would pay her a visit later when his uncle passes out. Although Sansa doesn't answer him, Joffrey sees that she is not enthused by the prospect but he brushes it off and says Meryn Trant and Boros Blount will hold her down.
Joffrey then claps his hands and declares it is time for the bedding ceremony, which visibly horrifies Sansa. Tyrion says there will be no bedding ceremony but Joffrey brushes him off, prompting Tyrion to loudly slam a dagger into a table and threaten his nephew with castration if he doesn't stop. Joffrey seethes with outrage but Tywin defuses the situation by telling Joffrey that his uncle is clearly quite drunk. Taking the hint, Tyrion plays along and takes a visibly relieved Sansa out of the room before Joffrey can take it any further.
Sansa begins to form a friendship with Tyrion, despite their circumstances.
Tyrion realizes how unhappy Sansa is with him and their marriage, and reassures her that they will not consummate it unless she wants to, even if that means never. The morning after the wedding, Shae is pleased to see that Sansa's bedsheets are unstained as it means that Sansa remains a virgin. Sansa and her new husband find themselves getting along rather well, sharing jokes and a common enemy in Joffrey. However, their cordial relationship suffers a crushing blow when Sansa receives news of the deaths of her mother and brother at the Red Wedding, an event orchestrated by Tyrion's father.
Sansa remains distraught over the deaths of her mother and brother.
Sansa remains despondent over the deaths of her mother and brother. Despite encouragement from Shae and Tyrion, she refuses to eat, even declining her favorite lemon cakes. She tells Tyrion that she lies awake all night thinking of how Catelyn and Robb died, how Robb's body was desecrated, and how Catelyn's body was dumped into the river. Sansa excuses herself from the table, saying she is going to the godswood. When Tyrion offers that prayer can be helpful, Sansa reveals that she no longer prays - the godswood is the only place she can go where nobody talks to her. While in the godswood, Sansa is watched by Jaime and Brienne, and later finds herself being followed by someone.
Sansa is given a diamond necklace by Dontos Hollard.
Her pursuer corners her, revealing himself to be Dontos Hollard, whose life she had saved earlier. Dontos expresses his gratitude to Sansa for speaking on his behalf while no one else would and offers her a necklace that had once belonged to his mother, saying it is the last heirloom of House Hollard. Sansa turns it down at first, not wanting to take something with such sentimental value but after urging from Dontos says she will wear it with pride.
Sansa attends a breakfast held before the wedding of Joffrey and Margaery. There, Joffrey is presented with a gift from Tywin: the second sword re-forged from Ice, the recently-destroyed ancestral sword of House Stark and which had been used spitefully to kill her father. Sansa shoots the sword a grim look of understanding when this occurs, and is shocked when the sword is turned on Tyrion's gift to Joffrey, a copy of Lives of Four Kings. Joffrey names his new weapon Widow's Wail, commenting that he will be reminded of Ned Stark's beheading each time he uses it. Sansa looks on in obvious grief.
Olenna consoles Sansa during the wedding feast.
At the end of the wedding itself, Sansa comments bitterly that "we have a new queen." Tyrion encourages her to look on the bright side: at least she isn't Queen. Later, at the wedding feast, Olenna walks up to Sansa to offer her condolences over the Red Wedding and invites her to visit Highgarden sometime when things settle down. During the exchange, Olenna toys with Sansa's hair and Hollard's necklace in a grandmotherly fashion.
Sansa laments her brother's death after it is played out by Joffrey.
Meanwhile, Joffrey amuses himself with a farcical "reenactment" of the War of the Five Kings, with each king being played by a dwarf. The dwarf playing Robb wears a wolf's head that is eventually knocked off by the dwarf playing Joffrey. Sansa again looks on in grief. When Tyrion makes a veiled reference to his nephew's cowardice during the Battle of Blackwater, a furious Joffrey pours wine over his uncle's head and orders him to be his cupbearer to humiliate him further. Joffrey drops his goblet on purpose and then kicks it under the table when Tyrion tries to pick it up. Sansa, seemingly feeling pity for Tyrion, picks up the goblet and hands it to him.
At Sansa's behest, she and Tyrion try to leave, but Joffrey calls them back and demands Tyrion bring him the cup again. Tyrion grudgingly obliges but unbeknownst to everyone, Olenna had slipped some poison into Joffrey's cup. The poison had come from one of the stones on an unaware Sansa's necklace, which Dontos had given her and Olenna fiddled with earlier, allowing Olenna to retrieve the poison. Later, as Joffrey lies dying from being poisoned, Dontos Hollard approaches Sansa and encourages her to leave in order to save her life, a suggestion Sansa takes to heart.
Dontos escorts Sansa away from the Purple Wedding.
After the events of the Purple Wedding, Sansa and Dontos make a quick escape and get on a boat, leaving the city. Dontos takes Sansa to a ship which turns out to belong to Petyr Baelish. Baelish has Dontos killed to guarantee his silence and destroys the necklace Sansa was wearing. Sansa screams and asks why he killed Dontos. Baelish simply states that Dontos was working solely for money and that now, she is safe.
Littlefinger reveals his role in Joffrey's murder to Sansa while en route to the Eyrie.
Petyr visits Sansa in her cabin and Sansa deduces that he was involved in Joffrey's death. After he tries to deny it, he simply ends up telling her everything about the wedding. Sansa is confused because of everything that the Lannisters have done for him and tells him that she doesn't believe that he would risk his life just to confuse the Lannisters. In response, Baelish states that he would risk anything to get what he wants. She asks him what he wants and he vaguely says "everything."
Sansa and Petyr are walking towards the Bloody Gate and Petyr educates Sansa on the Eyrie and its defenses. Sansa uses the disguise as Petyr's niece so no one knows who she is. When they enter the main hall, Sansa greets her aunt Lysa as Alayne, but Lysa interrupts her saying that she already knows who she is. However, Sansa cannot call Lysa 'Aunt' in front of anyone apart from Lysa, Petyr, and Sansa's cousin Robin, Lysa's son. Despite this, a joyful Robin offers Sansa a tour of the rest of the Eyrie.
Lysa asks Sansa about her virginity.
Later that night, an annoyed Sansa can't sleep due to Lysa's constant screaming from consummating her marriage to Petyr. The next day, Lysa brings Sansa lemon cakes and tells her that Petyr brought three crates from the capital for Sansa. She tells Sansa a story about Catelyn when she was young, getting fat off how much sweet food she had, which makes Sansa feel self-conscious. She stops, but Lysa tells her to carry on. Lysa abruptly turns antagonistic, accusing her of having sex with Petyr. Sansa panics and tries to assure Lysa that she is a virgin. Lysa disregards this, grabbing her hand and squeezing hard. Sansa starts crying while saying that all Petyr says that she is a stupid little girl, with stupid dreams, who never learns and is a terrible liar. Lysa puts on a polite face again and assures her that it is all alright and after Tyrion is executed she can marry her cousin Robin. Sansa is not sure what to make of this.
Sansa constructs a snow castle in the Eyrie
Petyr Baelish kisses Sansa Stark.
After settling into the Eyrie, albeit with discomfort, Sansa wanders into the courtyards alone, as the snow falls around the Vale. The snow, reminding her of home, prompts her to build a snow castle resembling Winterfell. She has a short-lived friendly conversation with Robin before she snaps at him for ruining her snow castle. This results in a heated confrontation between the cousins, which ends in Robin running back inside, crying after Sansa slaps him. Petyr presents himself shortly afterward, and Sansa questions him as to why he really had Joffrey killed. She allows herself to smile slightly when he claims that he did it for Catelyn, the only woman he ever loved. Sansa is shocked when he kisses her on the lips, which Lysa witnesses. She summons Sansa to the High Hall, where she sits over the open Moon Door. Sansa begins to grow concerned when Lysa comments on how far the drop is to the ground. Lysa, enraged over Petyr's interest in Sansa, threatens to have her killed and nearly manages to push her out of the Moon Door to her death before Petyr intervenes. Sansa watches as he tells Lysa that he only ever loved Catelyn, before pushing her to her death.
Sansa, as "Alayne," is called to testify before Lord Yohn Royce, Lady Anya Waynwood, and Ser Vance Corbray before Baelish can get to her, much to his chagrin. Sansa quickly reveals her true identity and relates the tale of her captivity and flight from King's Landing. She then proceeds to truthfully tell of Lysa's mental instability, jealousy, and death, changing only a few small details (she kissed Littlefinger on the cheek and Lysa threw herself through the Moon Door). Sansa breaks down in tears and the lords are convinced, but while none of them are looking, she gives Littlefinger a stony, almost triumphant gaze; this indicates she is finally playing the ruthless game of thrones.
Sansa presents her new  wardrobe to Littlefinger.
Later, Baelish visits Sansa and asks why she lied on his behalf. Sansa explains that she has no idea what Royce and Waynwood would want from her if Littlefinger were eliminated, but she knows exactly what he wants. Later on, as Littlefinger and Robin prepare to depart on a tour of the Vale, Sansa accompanies them, appearing with noticeably darker reddish-brown hair and garbed in a feathered black dress with a plunging neckline.
Sansa watches Lord Robin practice his swordsmanship along with Littlefinger and Yohn Royce.
Sansa, still under the alias Alayne, attends a sword jousting session for Robin at Runestone, along with Littlefinger and Yohn Royce, visibly unimpressed with Robin's sub-par skills at swordsmanship. Sansa notices that Littlefinger receives a raven message. Soon after, they leave Robin in the care of Lord Royce, for further training. On the carriage ride, Sansa questions Petyr as to why they are heading west when Lord Royce was told they would be traveling to the Fingers, unsure of his source of distrust. Petyr promises her that they are going somewhere far away, where Sansa will be safe from Queen Cersei.
Brienne of Tarth pledges her service to Sansa.
On their journey, Sansa and Baelish stop for lunch at an inn, where she tries ale for the first time. Sansa can't see what all the fuss is about, although the entire episode is designed to catch Littlefinger off-guard so she can ask about the raven-message he received back at Runestone. Baelish doesn't answer the question beyond indicating that the old saying "dark wings, dark words" doesn't apply in this instance. Shortly thereafter, Brienne appears unexpectedly and declares herself for Sansa. Baelish doubts that Sansa would want a sworn shield who let both of her previous masters die, even when Brienne reveals the true, somewhat unbelievable circumstances of Renly's death. Sansa seems inclined to agree with Littlefinger, pointing out that Brienne was present at Joffrey's wedding, to which the warrior replies that neither of them wanted to be there. Sansa rejects Brienne's offer of service and watches as she quickly defeats the guards and escapes.
Baelish reveals his plan of marrying Sansa off to Ramsay.
Sansa and Baelish eventually arrive at the ruins of Moat Cailin, where Sansa learns that they are actually returning to Winterfell and Baelish's plan is to have her marry Ramsay Bolton, the recently legitimized son of Roose Bolton, the current Warden of the North. Sansa is initially reluctant to marry into yet another family that betrayed hers, but Baelish pacifies her by claiming it will be an opportunity for her to avenge her family.
They arrive at Winterfell, where Baelish introduces Sansa to the Boltons. Roose and Ramsay greet Sansa politely, and after a tense moment during which she is repulsed merely by looking at Roose, Sansa greets them with courtesy, while Myranda, Ramsay's secret mistress, eyes Sansa with jealousy. She is later brought back to her old room by a servant, who welcomes her home and tells her that "the North remembers." While walking through Winterfell's courtyard, Sansa unknowingly passes Theon Greyjoy, who had been her father's ward she and her siblings grew up with at Winterfell. Theon hides his face from her as she passes.
Sansa visits the tomb of Lyanna Stark.
Settling into life at Winterfell, Sansa visits the Stark family crypts, re-lighting the votive candles and cleaning up the offerings left by visitors prior to Winterfell's fall. Littlefinger finds her regarding the statue of her long-dead aunt Lyanna Stark. Littlefinger, with minimal commentary, tells Sansa of the events at the tourney at Harrenhal, where Rhaegar unhorsed Ser Barristan Selmy, passed by his wife, and gave Lyanna a crown of flowers blue as frost, all to the shock of the crowd. He then tells Sansa that he's been recalled to King's Landing and that keeping Cersei waiting much longer would be unwise. Littlefinger explains parts of his master plan to Sansa: Stannis will inevitably take the North, and when he does, he will need a Stark at Winterfell. Littlefinger is certain Stannis will declare Sansa the Wardeness of the North. Even if Stannis fails, Ramsay is already betrothed to Sansa, and thus Sansa, who has learned to manipulate from the very best, can take control of House Bolton from within.
Sansa meets Myranda.
Sansa's maid brings a message to her. Consoling Sansa that she still has allies in the North, she tells Sansa to light a candle in the highest window of the Broken Tower if she's ever in trouble. As Sansa wanders around the castle, she runs into Myranda. Myranda puts on a friendly façade, talking to Sansa about her mother's demise. To help Sansa "remember" how things used to be while her family was still living in Winterfell, Myranda leads Sansa down to the kennels. In the kennels, Sansa finds "Reek" asleep in one of the cages. Awoken by Sansa's arrival, he just shakes his head when Sansa calls him Theon. He warns her that she shouldn't be down there. Seeing Reek in such a pitiable condition, Sansa angrily storms away.
Sansa dines with Lord Roose and Ramsay.
At dinner, Ramsay is initially well-behaved, toasting his wedding to Sansa, but is soon back to his old self as he forces Reek to apologize to Sansa for murdering Bran and Rickon. With much difficulty, Reek finally mutters an apology. Ramsay suggests that Reek be the one to give Sansa away at the wedding since he is the closest thing Sansa has to kin; Roose accepts this suggestion. Roose and Walda announce Walda's pregnancy, upsetting Ramsay, which in turn delights Sansa.
On the night of her wedding, Myranda draws a bath for Sansa, during which she advises Sansa not to bore Ramsay, and tells her about the fates of Violet, Tansy, and a third unseen girl named Kyra, examples of girls who Ramsay murdered for sport. When Myranda mentions that both she and Ramsay killed Tansy by hunting her, Sansa becomes angry, asking Myranda how long she has been in love with Ramsay and if she really expected Ramsay to marry her. She coolly tells Myranda that she is a Stark of Winterfell and will not be intimidated so easily by her, and dismisses her to finish her bath herself, though she is visibly shaken by Myranda's story.
Sansa is wed to Ramsay.
Later, when Theon comes to fetch Sansa for the wedding, she refuses to hold Theon's arm. Theon pleads for her to do so, revealing that Ramsay will punish him if she doesn't. Sansa coldly asks if he thinks she cares what Ramsay does to him, and strides past him. Reek then gives Sansa away to Ramsay, and they wed in front of the Godswood, in a ceremony officiated by Roose and attended by many Northern lords. Sansa hesitantly takes Ramsay as her husband, her eyes down, unable to look him in the eye.
Sansa's marriage to Ramsay proves to be difficult from the first.
After returning to the bedroom, Ramsay first interrogates Sansa about her virginity and her marriage to Tyrion, then orders her to take her clothes off. Reek turns to leave but Ramsay tells him he must stay, taunting him “you grew up with her as a girl, now watch her become a woman." Annoyed by Sansa's hesitancy, Ramsay angrily rips open the back of her dress and pushes her face-down over the side of the bed. As he unbuckles his clothes, Sansa obediently remains still but begins crying softly. Reek is visibly distraught and begins silently crying himself, as Ramsay proceeds to rape her, and forcibly consummate their marriage.
Over the next few days, Ramsay continues to rape Sansa every night, leaving bruises on her arms and body. She effectively becomes a prisoner of the Boltons, who keep her locked in her bedchamber. Reek brings her breakfast, and when she realizes he is there, she tries to talk to him and get him to help her. However, Reek reminds Sansa that she is Ramsay's wife now and merely tells her to do what he says or else he will hurt her. Sansa protests that Ramsay hurts her every night and finds it hard to believe that it could possibly get any worse but Reek warns her that it can. Sansa asks Reek what Ramsay did to break him to such an extent but when he tries to flee, Sansa grabs him by the wrist and angrily reminds him that he betrayed her family, making him apologize profusely. She tells Reek that he can still redeem himself by lighting a candle in the broken tower in order to signal the Starks' allies she was told about. Though Sansa addresses him as Theon throughout this conversation, Reek keeps repeating his name is Reek, forcing Sansa to grab him by the face and look him directly in the eye. She insists that his name is Theon Greyjoy, the only surviving son of Balon Greyjoy, and this initially seems to get through to Theon for a time.
During a walk on the battlements, Ramsay gloats that one day he will be the Warden of the North, with Sansa as his Wardeness. Sansa counters by telling him his position is still threatened by Roose and Walda's unborn son since this child will be trueborn while Ramsay is not, as Ramsay is bastard-born and was legitimized by King Tommen Baratheon, who Sansa asserts is another bastard.
Ramsay forces Sansa to look upon the corpse of the flayed old woman.
Sansa learns that her half-brother Jon has recently been elected Lord Commander of the Night's Watch when Ramsay tells her that even bastards can rise high in the world, citing Jon's rise in the Night's Watch to Lord Commander. As they descend into the courtyard, Sansa pockets a corkscrew while Ramsay reveals that Reek reported the candle to him, and Ramsay responded by flaying Sansa's elderly maid. He forces Sansa to view her maid's corpse. She is then ordered back to her chambers.
Theon reveals to Sansa that Bran and Rickon are indeed alive.
Sansa remains angry at Theon for his betrayal, as well his role in Bran and Rickon's murder. When Theon enters her chambers again to bring her latest meal, she demands an answer for his latest betrayal and coldly expresses approval when he tells her about the torture Ramsay put him through. Theon shamefully admits he deserved it as he did terrible things, specifically killing "those boys." Enraged by his reference seemingly to her brothers as "those boys" rather than Bran and Rickon, Sansa vehemently demands to know why they should be dead while he still breathes the air, forcing Theon to finally admit that they were not Bran and Rickon but two farm boys. Stunned by this admission, her anger towards Theon cools. However, when she asks if he knows where they might have gone to, he breaks down and leaves the room, fearful of what Ramsay will do if and when he finds out what he just told her. However, Sansa appears to be left with a sense of renewed hope by the revelation that she has more surviving family left.
Sansa attempts to flee Winterfell.
Sansa attempts to escape during the battle between the Boltons and Stannis Baratheon by picking the lock on her door with the corkscrew and lighting the candle in the tower. However, Brienne and Podrick don't see the candle due to being distracted by Stannis's army. In the process of trying to escape, Sansa runs into Myranda and Theon, with the former aiming a bow at her. Myranda says that she has come to escort Sansa back to her chambers, and Theon initially begs Sansa to go with her. Though Sansa is visibly frightened, she stands her ground and refuses to go with Myranda, saying, "If I'm going to die, let it happen while there's still some of me left."
Theon and Sansa prepare to jump.
A bemused Myranda briefly lowers her arrow and admits Ramsay needs her alive in order to secure his hold on the North. But Myranda adds Ramsay doesn't need Sansa in one piece to do that, just the "parts" that he needs to produce his heir. Myranda maliciously nocks her arrow again and prepares to at least maim Sansa with it. Before she can release it, however, Theon grabs Myranda, making her fire and miss, and throws her off the battlement, killing her instantly on impact. Theon and Sansa then escape Winterfell by jumping off the side of Winterfell's walls, hoping to survive the long fall by landing in the deep snow.
Sansa while on the run from the Boltons.
After escaping from Winterfell, Sansa and Theon flee into the Wolfswood, with the Bolton forces in hot pursuit. They cross a stream and briefly take shelter under an uprooted tree, where Theon hugs Sansa to keep her warm. Shortly after, however, they are found by the Bolton men and hounds. Theon urges Sansa to flee to the safety of her half-brother Jon at Castle Black. but Sansa refuses to leave Theon behind to the Boltons. Brienne and Podrick appear just in time and fight off the soldiers, killing them all. Brienne once again offers her service to Sansa, who this time readily accepts, reciting her vows.
Brienne tells Sansa of Arya's survival.
On the way to Castle Black, Brienne reveals to Sansa how she briefly met Arya near the Bloody Gate. Sansa is delighted to hear that her sister is still alive and well. Theon decides to part with the group and head to the Iron Islands. Sansa implores Theon to come with them as Jon will protect them from Ramsay but Theon refuses, fearing Jon will have him executed as Theon betrayed Robb, beheaded their master-at-arms Ser Rodrik, and killed those two boys. Sansa promises Theon she will tell Jon the truth about Bran and Rickon being alive, that Theon didn't kill them, and wants him to join the Night's Watch so all his crimes can be forgiven. Theon responds he still killed two farm boys and reminds Sansa of his crimes against House Stark, for which Jon will never forgive him. He reveals he does not want to be forgiven as he can never make up for his crimes against Sansa and Jon's family. When Sansa realizes that Theon cannot be convinced to come with them, she bids him farewell, and the two share a tender hug.
Sansa reunites with Jon.
Sansa, Brienne, and Podrick arrive soon at Castle Black where they find Jon. At first, both "siblings" are too stunned to even speak when they see each other, but quickly share a loving embrace after their long and tragic separation. As Jon offers Sansa food, they reminisce about their happy childhood and how they both regret ever leaving Winterfell. Sansa apologizes to Jon for her dismissive treatment of him while growing up, to which Jon responds that there is nothing to apologise for. When they resolve to stick together, Sansa says the only place they can go now is home. She then asks him to help her reclaim their home from the Boltons. However, Jon tells her that he is tired of fighting, that he had done nothing but fight since he left home, and that he was killed for it. Although Sansa appears to accept his choice, she tells him that she will reclaim Winterfell and the North, with or without his help.
Sansa hears Ramsay's threats in his letter to Jon.
As Sansa and Jon share a meal with Eddison Tollett, Tormund, Podrick, and Brienne, a messenger arrives from Winterfell with a letter from Ramsay. In the letter, Ramsay states that he has Rickon  prisoner at Winterfell and if Sansa is not returned, he will slaughter every wildling under Jon's protection, let his men rape Sansa, and feed Jon and Rickon to his dogs. Ramsay signs the letter 'Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North,' prompting Sansa to reveal Ramsay killed his father.
She demands they fight to reclaim Winterfell.
When Tormund asks Sansa how many Ramsay has in his army and Sansa recalls 5,000, Jon asks Tormund how many he has who are able to fight. Tormund replies that they have only 2,000 men and women in shape to fight, not enough to match Ramsay's five thousand. Sansa tells Jon that the houses of the North will unite behind him as the son of the last true Warden of the North and they need to go back to Winterfell to save it and their brother. Jon agrees to take Ramsay down so they save Rickon and take back their home.
Sansa refuses Littlefinger's offer.
Later, Sansa receives a letter from Petyr asking to meet in Mole's Town. Accompanied by Brienne, they meet in a ruined house, and Sansa angrily tells Baelish the details of her wedding night, asking if he knew the truth about Ramsay all along. Instead, Baelish changes the subject, informing Sansa he has rallied the Knights of the Vale to help her, along with news that her great-uncle Brynden has recaptured Riverrun. Sansa takes an alliance with the Blackfish into consideration, but refuses help from Baelish, warning him never to speak to her again. She says she has an army. Petyr responds it's her brother's army and adds, "Half-brother."
The war council is made aware of the Blackfish by Sansa.
At a war meeting at Castle Black, Sansa and Jon discuss which of the Northern houses they can rely on to support them. As the Karstarks and Umbers have already sided with House Bolton, Ser Davos suggests asking House Manderly. When Jon decides to rally the two dozen houses still loyal to the Starks, Sansa informs him they can add House Tully to the list, but lies about how she acquired the information. After the meeting, Sansa plans to send Brienne to Riverrun, as the Boltons could intercept any raven sent there. Brienne is worried about leaving her and while Brienne feels Jon is trustworthy, she is dubious about the other men. Sansa assures Brienne that Jon will keep her safe, he is her brother and she trusts him. Brienne counters by asking Sansa why she lied to Jon about meeting with Baelish. Before riding south, Sansa gives Jon a new cloak she had made for him styled after their father's.
The personal sigil assumed by Sansa after her escape from the Boltons.
Sansa and Jon arrive at Bear Island and are summoned before Lyanna Mormont. Jon asks for the assistance of House Mormont in the upcoming battle for Winterfell to help them save their brother, as House Mormont has pledged themselves to House Stark. However, Lyanna tells him that he is a Snow and Sansa is a Bolton. Sansa says that she did what she had to do, but she didn't want it. When Sansa attempts to flatter Lyanna and Jon explains how he served under Lyanna's uncle Lord Commander Jeor Mormont, Lyanna wants them to get to the point. Ser Davos steps in and manages to convince Lyanna to pledge her allegiance, telling of the coming threat of the White Walkers, however, a mere sixty-two men are contributed.
House Stark attempts to recruit House Glover.
Sansa and Jon later travel to Deepwood Motte, to ask for the assistance of House Glover. They receive a frosty reception from Robett Glover, who has just reclaimed Deepwood Motte from the ironborn. When Jon fails to bring him around. Sansa tells Robett that the Glovers are pledged to House Stark, and sworn to fight when called upon. Robett responds he pledged to House Stark and fought for Robb Stark but it cost the Glovers their home and many lives, due to Robb's lack of stability following his marriage to Talisa. Sansa and Jon are only able to recruit a few Northern houses and only gain a few hundred men. Jon says they should strike Winterfell immediately before the coming storm and before Ramsay can gather more men. Sansa says they don't have enough men and wants to go to Castle Cerwyn to try and persuade Lord Cerwyn, however, Jon reflects on their lack of time. When Jon refuses to change his mind, Sansa writes a letter to an unknown party (but does not tell Jon) for reinforcements.
Sansa at the parley with Ramsay Bolton.
Sansa and Jon meet with Ramsay on the day before battle. Ramsay tries to taunt Sansa, but she remains stoic. She asks Ramsay how do they know if he truly has their younger brother Rickon. Smalljon answers her question by throwing the decapitated head of Rickon's direwolf Shaggydog into their view. As Ramsay proceeds to tell the Starks what to do if they want to save Rickon, Sansa cuts him off by telling him that he is going to die the next day and rides off.
Sansa attempts to advise Jon.
After a meeting where Jon discusses battle plans with Tormund and Davos, Sansa admonishes Jon for attacking with too few men, saying that they need a larger force. Jon agrees they don't have enough men but responds this is the largest army they could possibly gather, saying they have pleaded with every house who would have them and the Blackfish can't help. Sansa warns Jon that Ramsay won't fall into Jon's trap, Ramsay is the one who lays traps, and Ramsay has been playing with people all his life. Jon responds he has faced worse than Ramsay Bolton, to which she replies, "You don't know him!" When Jon asks how do they get Rickon back, Sansa tells him will never get him back alive. Jon refuses to give up on their brother and Sansa tells Jon that Ramsay wants him to make a mistake. Jon asks Sansa what he should do differently but Sansa responds she doesn't know about battles and implores her brother not to do what Ramsay wants him to do. When they finish arguing, Sansa tells Jon that if Ramsay wins, she will die before she goes back to him. Jon vows to protect Sansa, to which she cynically replies that no one can keep anyone safe.
Sansa arrives to the Battle of the Bastards with Littlefinger and forces from House Arryn.
Sansa is not present during the premise of the Battle of the Bastards, in which Rickon is killed by Ramsay. As the battle is nearing an end and all hope seems lost, a distant horn is heard sounding in the distance. Sansa and Petyr Baelish (to whom Sansa had sent the raven) arrive with the Knights of the Vale to help Jon and his army reclaim Winterfell. The Vale forces run down the advancing Bolton forces.
Sansa watches as Jon beats Ramsay.
After Winterfell is breached, Sansa enters the Winterfell courtyard and witnesses Jon defeat Ramsay in single combat, though Jon momentarily goes into a wild frenzy and begins to pummel Ramsay, he spares Ramsay out of respect for Sansa. With the Stark banners hanging in Winterfell once more, Sansa sees Rickon's dead body, concluding to ask Jon where Ramsay is. Sansa confronts a bloodied and bound Ramsay in the kennels. He tries to goad her by telling her how she will never be rid of him because he is "part of [her] now." Although Sansa does not deny his implication that she herself will always remember him, she calmly retorts that his house is about to become extinct and that all memory of Ramsay to the rest of the world will soon disappear, just before an ominous growl from one of his hounds reveals his impending doom. Ramsay responds that his dogs are loyal to him, but Sansa reminds her husband that he revealed he had been starving his dogs for seven days. The dogs approach Ramsay and he desperately attempts to order them to heel but after a brief moment of hesitation, one of the hounds bites him. As they begin to tear Ramsay apart while he screams, Sansa walks away with a small smile.
With Winterfell firmly under Stark control, Sansa joins Jon on the ramparts as he watches an exiled Melisandre heading south. He tells her that he is having the Lord's chambers prepared for her. Although she protests that he should have it, Jon refuses, telling his sister he is not a Stark. Sansa tells Jon that he is a Stark to her, but he still refuses, telling Sansa that she deserves it as the Lady of Winterfell and because the Knights of the Vale came because of her, resulting in their victory. Jon asks her about Littlefinger and whether they can trust him, to which she insists that they cannot. Sansa apologizes for not telling him about the Knights of the Vale. While he understands why she didn't tell him about Baelish, Jon insists that they have to trust each other completely now that they have so many enemies. He kisses her on the forehead and when he turns to leave, Sansa calls him back. She smiles as she tells Jon that a white raven arrived from the Citadel, announcing the arrival of winter as their father had always predicted. Jon returns her smile.
Littlefinger tells Sansa of his wish to sit on the Iron Throne, with Sansa as his Queen.
Sansa is later found by Littlefinger in the Godswood. She tells him about how she had prayed in it every day as a little girl, always dreaming of being somewhere else. She then asks what he truly wants, and he tells her what his ultimate ambition is: himself sitting on the Iron Throne with Sansa at his side. He tries to kiss her but she rebukes him. As she walks away, he tells her that although he had officially aligned House Arryn with House Stark, reprisals would come from King's Landing. Sansa reminds Littlefinger he's declared for other houses before and this did not stop him from switching sides to ensure his own interests. Before she leaves, Littlefinger once again reminds her of Jon's illegitimate birth.
Sansa in the Great Hall while the Northern lords discuss the new situation in the North.
With the Stark victory, the remaining Northern lords joined by the Vale Lords arrive at Winterfell to discuss the new situation in the North. Some, such as Lord Yohn Royce, object to the wildlings' presence, but Tormund responds they were invited. The lords of both the North and the Vale claim that they need to return to their homes before the winter hits but Jon warns them that the war is not over - the  true enemy "won't wait out the storm. He brings the storm." At this point, Lyanna Mormont stands up and chastises the assembled Northmen for refusing House Stark's call in their greatest hour of need.
Sansa glances at Littlefinger during Jon's ascension.
Lyanna proclaims House Mormont remembers and says, "The North remembers. We know no king but the King in the North whose name is Stark." She says that she doesn't care if Jon is a bastard son because he has Ned Stark's blood in his veins. With that, she acclaims Jon as the King in the North, as his "brother" Robb had been before him. Lyanna's speech is followed by a similar declaration from both Lord Wyman Manderly of the White Harbor and Lord Glover of Deepwood Motte. The assembled Lords of the North and the Vale acclaim Jon as the King in the North. Jon looks at Sansa, and she smiles back at him, but her smile fades when she glances at Littlefinger (the only other person not cheering), who gives her an unimpressed and knowing look.
Sansa at a meeting at Winterfell.
Jon organizes the North's defense against the White Walkers. He asks Tormund and his people to man the Wall at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and Tormund agrees. When the issue of the lands and strongholds belonging to the Umbers and Karstarks arises, Sansa says these castles and lands should be given to new families who fought with House Stark against the Boltons. Jon disagrees, stating that the children of Houses Umber and Karstark cannot be held accountable for the past mistakes of their fathers and elder siblings and the children of these houses will retain their family lands and castles. Sansa disputes Jon's decision in front of Jon's bannermen. Ned Umber and Alys Karstark pledge fealty to House Stark.
In private, Jon tells Sansa that though she is his sister and can question his decisions, her publicly doing so in front of the Northern lords and ladies undermines his authority with them. Sansa tells Jon he is a good ruler but implores him not to repeat the past mistakes of Ned and Robb. After receiving a message from Cersei demanding that Jon bend the knee, Sansa warns Jon not to underestimate the new queen and recommends dealing with her before confronting the Night King. Sansa also remarks that she learned a lot from Cersei during her time at King's Landing.
Petyr questions Sansa's happiness.
She is later approached by Littlefinger to see if she is truly "safe" and "happy." Sansa confirms her safety in Winterfell, but Baelish continues to question her in regard to her happiness. Just as he is about to speak again, Sansa dismisses him. Brienne arrives and asks her why Petyr is still at Winterfell. Sansa explains that without his help, Winterfell would still be under Bolton control, and assures Brienne that she already knows what Littlefinger really wants.
Sansa, Jon, and Davos review a message from Tyrion, in which Tyrion asks for Jon to meet with Daenerys Targaryen on Dragonstone. Sansa questions the letter's legitimacy, worried that it was forged to lure Jon into a trap. Fortunately, he confirms the letter is genuine after reading a familiar line from his first meeting with Tyrion. Jon asks Sansa for her opinion. Sansa responds that Tyrion was not like the other Lannisters and he was kind to her. She still affirms that leaving for Dragonstone could possibly put her half-brother in danger, despite Tyrion's letter saying that Daenerys's faction only wishes to forge an alliance against Cersei, albeit also detailing the military forces that Daenerys has at her disposal. After examining the letter for himself, Davos says that three dragons would prove indispensable in their battle against the White Walkers.
At the following meeting with Jon's bannermen, despite Samwell Tarly's letter confirming a large supply of dragonglass on Dragonstone, Sansa maintains her opposition to Daenerys's request after hearing Jon's intent of accepting the invite to the island. She reminds Jon that their grandfather was also invited to see the Mad King at the cost of his own life. Sansa says Daenerys is in Westeros to reclaim the Seven Kingdoms and believes this mission is too great a risk for her brother to take. Jon considers Sansa's suspicions a possibility and knows it is a risk but believes Tyrion is a good man.
Sansa bids Jon farewell from the Winterfell battlements, wary of his alliance with Daenerys.
He asserts that forging a treaty with Daenerys is an opportunity they can't afford to miss due to the threat of the Walkers, and therefore a risk that he, as King, must take for the sake of saving the North as they need the dragonglass, dragonfire, and weapons to defend themselves against the White Walkers. Sansa, as well as Jon's bannermen, disagree with his decision. Sansa tries to convince Jon to stay by telling him to send an emissary to Dragonstone in his place, but Jon insists that he meet Daenerys monarch-to-monarch. He does not want to leave the North but is the only one there who has experienced the army of the dead, knows how bad their odds are, and he will never stop fighting for the North's survival. Jon gives Sansa control of the North while he is gone and Sansa accepts the responsibility. As Jon leaves, they bid each other farewell.
Sansa is informed of the dangers of power.
With Jon at Dragonstone, Sansa and Petyr Baelish learn from Maester Wolkan that they have about 4,000 bushels of wheat. Sansa realizes that they don't have enough food for the coming winter. She advocates building granaries to stockpile for a famine. Sansa orders Yohn Royce to see that the armor made for their armies are outfitted with leather to keep warm. While walking, Baelish and Sansa talk about the threat of Cersei. Petyr urges her to fight every battle and to look for threats in every corner.
Sansa reunites with Bran.
They are interrupted by a guard who tells Sansa that she has received a visitor, who turns out to be her younger brother Bran, accompanied by Meera Reed. Following a tearful reunion, the two siblings retreat to the Godswood where Sansa tells Bran how she wishes Jon was there with them at Winterfell. Bran agrees, noting that he needs to speak to Jon. When Sansa points out that Bran is the rightful Lord of Winterfell since he is the last remaining trueborn son of Ned Stark, Bran refuses the position, stating that he is the Three-Eyed Raven and thus can't be any sort of lord. Sansa remains as the Lady of Winterfell. Sansa is utterly confused with this prospect, leading Bran reveals he has visions, trying to explain the previous Three-Eyed Raven's teachings, although this just makes Sansa even more baffled at Bran. Almost eerily and without emotion, Bran demonstrates his newly-acquired power to a skeptical Sansa by describing the night of her horrific marriage to Ramsay. This startles Sansa, who quickly excuses herself and she walks away in shock and tears.
Sansa is informed of Arya's return.
Two guards inform Sansa that someone claiming to be her sister Arya is trying to gain access to Winterfell. They brush the girl off as an impostor, revealing she asked for Luwin and Rodrik Cassel. Sansa instantly realizes it must be Arya and knows where she has gone. Sansa finds Arya where she expected, in the crypts looking over their father Ned's grave. They are happy to see each other but so much has happened to both of them in the past few years that they are at first awkward, unsure of what to say. Arya asks if she has to call Sansa "Lady Stark" now, to which Sansa firmly insists "Yes" - and then laughs. They smile and hug, though still a bit unsure. Arya notes that Jon left her in charge and smiles when Sansa says that she hopes Jon will be back soon -  he will be so happy to see Arya, remembering how happy Jon was to see her when they were reunited.
Sansa reunites with Arya.
The reunited sisters then look sadly on their father's grave statue. Arya says it doesn't really look like him. Sansa acknowledges that everyone who really knew his face is dead. Arya points out they're not. Arya tells Sansa that everyone says Sansa killed Joffrey. Sansa explains she actually didn't, though she wished she had. Arya remarks that he was always at the top of her "list." This confuses Sansa, and Arya explains that she'd been keeping a list of everyone she was going to kill - at which they both laugh. Finally, Sansa asks how Arya got back, but Arya only says her road wasn't a pleasant one. Sansa says her own road wasn't either. They hug again, earnestly and warmly. Sansa then informs Arya that Bran is home too.
Sansa watches as Bran and Arya reunite.
Sansa brings Arya to Bran in the Godswood, where he is lost in thought by the Weirwood heart tree. Arya hugs Bran, who remains somewhat detached even at the sight of Arya. Bran says he isn't surprised Arya is alive because he saw her at the Inn at the Crossroads. Arya is confused, and Sansa explains that Bran is having "visions" now. Bran says he thought Arya was going to King's Landing, and when Sansa asks why Arya would head there of all places, he again startles them both by revealing Cersei is on Arya's list of names. Sansa asks Arya who else is on her list. Arya responds that most of these people, aside from Cersei, are dead already.
Sansa, Arya, and Bran are reunited.
Sansa and Arya remark on the Valyrian steel dagger in Bran's lap, and Bran explains that Littlefinger gave it to him. Arya is confused as to why a common cutthroat would have a rare, priceless blade of Valyrian steel. Bran matter-of-factly says that someone very wealthy wanted him dead, and gave it to the assassin. Sansa is mistrustful of Littlefinger and explains Littlefinger would never give anyone anything unless he was expecting something in return. Bran says that doesn't matter because he doesn't want it. Instead, Bran hands the blade to Arya and says she can have it because he feels it's "wasted on a cripple." Sansa looks down. Sansa, Bran, and Arya - three of the remaining Stark children - proceed back to Winterfell's castle courtyard together, with Arya pushing Bran in his wheelchair.
Sometime later, Sansa and Littlefinger watch on silently from the walkway above as Arya and Brienne. Brienne goes easy on her at first, but then Arya completely outmaneuvers Brienne using the water dance training she received from Syrio Forel, augmented by her training with the Faceless Men. Ultimately, they reach a stalemate, with each of them holding a blade at the others' throat. Arya takes her leave of Brienne, both mutually impressed, as Sansa looks down baffled at how her sister reached such a deadly skill level.
Later, in the Winterfell throne room, Sansa oversees a meeting of the Northern lords. Complaining that the King in the North should stay in the North, Robett Glover and Yohn Royce propose that she take power in the absence of her half-brother Jon. However, Sansa insists Jon is their true ruler who is doing what he believes is right for their people and that she is merely his regent. Following the meeting, Sansa confides her frustration in the Northern lords with Arya. Arya thinks that she should not let the lords get away with insulting her and suggests assassinating them. Sansa disagrees with Arya's idea to kill the troublesome lords, preferring a more diplomatic approach so as not to lose their support. Arya tells Sansa to admit that she is harbouring thoughts of permanently ruling Winterfell if Jon doesn't return. Disturbed and disheartened by Arya's suspicions of her, Sansa tells Arya that she has "work to do."
Arya confronts Sansa about their father's death.
Later, Arya presents the letter that Sansa had written to their late brother Robb urging him to come and bend the knee to Joffrey. Sansa replies that Cersei forced her to do it under duress. Arya counters that she was not tortured and that she saw Sansa at their father's execution; Sansa retorts that Arya did nothing to stop their father's execution either. Arya chastises Sansa for betraying their family but Sansa responds that they have only returned to Winterfell because of her, while Arya travelled the world in pursuit of her own agenda. Sansa adds that their half-brother Jon was saved from defeat when Petyr Baelish and the Knights of the Vale came to their rescue and insists Arya would not have survived the torments she endured at the hands of Joffrey and Ramsay.
Sansa demands to know where Arya found the letter and chides her younger sister that Cersei would be pleased to see them fighting, but Arya is still bitter towards Sansa. She realizes that while Jon would understand the difficult circumstances Sansa was under when she wrote the letter, Sansa is afraid the Northern lords will discover it and turn on her, including Lyanna Mormont. Arya adds that Lyanna is younger than Sansa was when she wrote this letter but argues Lyanna wouldn't agree with Sansa's defense that she was a child at the time. While recognizing that Sansa wrote the letter out of fear, a bitter Arya says that she prefers to embrace anger over fear.
Later, Sansa asks Petyr Baelish about where Arya got the letter from, unaware that Baelish orchestrated the entire incident. Sansa tells Petyr that she is commanding 20,000 men who answer to Jon but not to her. Petyr tells Sansa that the men will trust her because she can rule. Sansa does not trust the loyalty of the Northern lords, citing their history of switching sides. She counters that the discovery of the letter will turn her liege lords and men against her. Sansa confides in Petyr about her strained relations with Arya. Petyr suggests that Sansa talk with Brienne of Tarth because she has sworn to protect both of Catelyn's daughters from harm. Trusting Baelish, Sansa accepts his advice.
Sansa sends Brienne to King's Landing.
The following morning, Maester Wolkan informs Sansa that they have received a letter from Cersei. Sansa meets with Brienne, who advises her not to leave Winterfell. Instead, Sansa decides to send Brienne as her representative since she could reason with Jaime. Brienne warns that it is too dangerous for her to leave Sansa alone at Winterfell with Petyr. Sansa insists that her guards and men are loyal to her but Brienne warns that Petyr might be bribing them behind her back. Brienne offers to leave her squire Podrick Payne, whose swordsmanship has improved, but Sansa insists that she can take care of herself.
Sansa confronts Arya after finding the faces.
Sansa enters Arya's quarters and opens a leather case containing several "faces," including the late Walder Frey's face. Arya catches her sister pilfering through her personal effects. When Sansa tells Arya that her men are loyal to her, Arya mockingly retorts that they are not here. Arya tells Sansa that she obtained the faces from the Faceless Men of Braavos and admits she spent time training to be a Faceless Man. She forces Sansa to play the lying game and begins by asking if she thinks that Jon is the rightful King. Sansa demands that Arya tell her what the "faces" are.
Arya replies that when they were young they always aspired to be other people. Sansa wanted to be a queen while Arya herself wanted to be a knight. In the end, neither of them got what they wanted. Arya says that the faces allow her to become someone else and toys with the idea of assuming Sansa's face and status. Arya approaches Sansa with her dagger and muses at the prospect of becoming the Lady of Winterfell. However, Arya relents and leaves a disturbed Sansa alone with the dagger.
Sansa and Petyr discuss Jon's decision to bend the knee to Daenerys. Sansa feels betrayed by Jon, and Petyr suggests that Sansa would make a better ruler than Jon. Sansa tells Petyr that Arya would turn against her if she tried to usurp Jon's power, and Petyr goads her, planting the idea that Arya wants to kill Sansa and take her place as Lady of Winterfell.
However, still unsure of Petyr's intentions, Sansa visits Bran. From this, she learns of his Greensight powers, in which he proves Petyr's ultimate guilt in the War of the Five Kings. This proves everything Petyr has done to gain power: his murder of Jon Arryn, his attempt to kill Bran, his betrayal of Ned and his attempt to turn Arya and Sansa against each other.
Sansa turns the tables on Petyr.
Sansa sits with Bran when Arya is brought into the Great Hall. Petyr watches as Sansa reads the charges of murder and treason, before Sansa addresses him directly, revealing that the trial is actually for him. She accuses Petyr of murdering Lysa Arryn, convincing her to poison her husband and sending a letter to the Starks blaming the Lannisters for the crime, and conspiring with Cersei and Joffrey to imprison and execute Eddard Stark.
Sansa presides over Petyr's execution.
Petyr denies the charges, but Bran reveals that he has seen Petyr's betrayal in his visions. Sansa is unfazed by Petyr's begging and thanks him for all his lessons, promising she will never forget them. Arya then slits Petyr's throat, and Sansa watches as he dies.
On the battlements, Sansa confides in Arya that she believed Petyr really did love her, and Arya assures her that she did the right thing. Arya concedes that she couldn't have survived what Sansa survived, but Sansa disagrees, claiming that Arya is the strongest person she knows. Arya and Sansa remember their father's words about looking out for one another, and each confides how much they miss him.
Sansa cautiously eyes Daenerys.
Sansa stands on Winterfell's ramparts as the combined Stark and Targaryen forces march towards the castle, and stares in cautious awe as Drogon and Rhaegal fly overhead. She greets Jon as he arrives in the courtyard, and mentions that Arya is "lurking somewhere" when Jon notices her absence. He introduces her to Daenerys as the Lady of Winterfell, and the two women exchange a civil but tense greeting.
Sansa sits at the high table of Winterfell.
Later, in the castle's great hall, Sansa sits at the high table along with Jon, Daenerys, and Tyrion. Tyrion tries to calm those present who are displeased at Jon bending the knee to Daenerys; he says that they have assembled the largest army ever seen. Sansa coolly undercuts Tyrion by asking how she is supposed to feed an army that size, as well as two full-grown dragons. When she sarcastically asks what dragons eat, Daenerys replies, "Whatever they want."
Sansa later converses with Tyrion privately for the first time since they last saw each other at Joffrey's wedding; Tyrion calls the wedding "a miserable affair," though Sansa sardonically remarks, "It had its moments." She also calls Tyrion out for believing that Cersei will honor the pledge to send the Lannister forces north. She is disappointed in Tyrion, saying she used to think Tyrion was the cleverest man she ever met.
Sansa shows Jon the message that Robett Glover will be remaining in Deepwood Mott with his troops, as he never pledged to fight for a Targaryen. She expresses her disapproval of Jon giving up his crown to Daenerys. Jon replies titles don't matter in the face of the Night King and the army of the dead and they don't stand a chance against them without Daenerys's help. Although Sansa assures Jon that her faith in his judgement has not waivered, she bluntly asks him if he truly bent the knee to save the North, or because he loves Daenerys.
When Jaime arrives at Winterfell, Sansa - now clad in armor - is once again seated at the high table with Jon and Daenerys. The two women harshly berate Jaime for his past actions and question whether his loyalty to their cause is genuine. Only when Brienne vouches for Jaime does Sansa trust him, and Daenerys allows his sword to be returned to him. 
Sansa and Dany discuss Jon.
Later, Daenerys speaks privately with Sansa, addressing some of the thorny political issues involved in their alliance. When Sansa notes Jon's love for Daenerys and is concerned Daenerys is manipulating him, Daenerys openly confesses her love for Jon, assuring Sansa she has no ulterior motives. Although a greater understanding appears to develop between the two women, Sansa remains firm in her conviction that the Northerners will never truly accept an outsider as their ruler again, and bluntly asks Daenerys what her plans for the North are once the dead have been defeated.
Sansa shares a meal with Theon.
The awkward moment is interrupted by Maester Wolkan announcing the arrival of Theon and his men. In the great hall, Theon kneels to Daenerys and asks Sansa's permission to stand with the Starks against the army of the dead, at which Sansa strides forward and embraces him. The two are later seen having a meal in the courtyard while awaiting the call to arms.
Sansa is told to enter the crypts by Arya.
When the army of the dead and the army of Winterfell finally face each other across the battlefield, Sansa and Arya observe from the castle walls. When the initial charge of Dothraki screamers is easily repelled and the wights advance, Arya orders Sansa to go down into the crypts and hands her a dragonglass dagger. Sansa says she doesn't know how to use it, and Arya repeats the words that Jon said when he gave Arya Needle: "Stick 'em with the pointy end." Down in the crypts, Tyrion is restless about not being able to help, but Sansa firmly reminds him that they are all down there for a reason; they won't be any help on the battlefield, and doing nothing is the most heroic - if the most difficult - thing they can do.
Sansa and Tyrion make light of their failed marriage.
Impressed by her logic, Tyrion sardonically remarks that they should have stayed married. Sansa humorously acknowledges that he was the best relationship she ever had, but his loyalties to Daenerys would mean that they could never remain together, which is taken as an offence to Daenerys by Missandei. As the army of the dead breaches Winterfell's walls, the Night King reanimates all that have fallen in the battle so far, and his spell extends to the many Stark bodies housed in Winterfell's crypts. In the crypts, the living scramble to escape and Sansa ends up hiding behind a large stone casket with Tyrion. The two look desperately into each other's eyes, and Sansa pulls out the dragonglass dagger given to her by Arya.
An unspoken understanding passes between her and Tyrion, who tearfully kisses her hand as if in farewell. Before she can act, however, Arya manages to slay the Night King in the godswood, causing the entire army and the remaining White Walkers to shatter and collapse. Sansa and the other survivors make their way out of the crypt to survey what remains.
Sansa mourns Winterfell's fallen.
The survivors of the battle later gather in front of Winterfell's walls to light the funeral pyres of all who gave their lives in defense of the living. Sansa tearfully places a pin bearing the House Stark direwolf onto Theon's body before lighting his pyre herself. During the celebration feast that follows, she makes her way to the table where the Hound is seated.
Sandor and Sansa discuss the tragedy in their lives.
The two discuss the many trials they've suffered since their last meeting, and Clegane reminds Sansa that she could have been spared many horrors if she'd left with him when he offered. While not downplaying her own tragedies, Sansa coolly responds that without those horrors, she would still be the "little bird" Cersei thought her to be - ignorant of the cruelty of the world and unable to fend for herself.
Sansa is informed of Jon's true parentage.
Sansa later attends a war council in preparation for the continued war against Cersei. She advises giving the armies time to rest before engaging in a new conflict, only to cause a tense moment with Daenerys who insists on attacking Cersei as soon as possible, coolly telling Sansa that it's time for the North to reciprocate. Along with Arya and Bran, Sansa then meets with Jon in the godswood. Jon is angry at his sisters for their treatment of Daenerys, explaining they'd all be dead without her. Sansa protests that Arya is the one who killed the Night King and Jon points out Daenerys's armies gave their lives to defend against the Army of the Dead. Sansa acknowledges this but doesn't think it's reason enough to automatically submit to Daenerys but Jon says he pledged the North to Daenerys. Arya tells Jon she respects his decision, it was the right thing to do, but it's also right for herself and Sansa to distrust his Queen. Jon wants them to get to know Daenerys but Arya doesn't want to either, Daenerys isn't one of them. Jon tells her they won't make many allies if they're only friends with the people she grew up with. Arya is fine with this because all she needs is their family, the four of them. Jon tells them he's not a Stark, but Sansa and Arya both insist he is Ned's son and their brother. Pained, Jon reveals he needs to tell them something and swears them to secrecy. Sansa balks but Jon asks her to do it because they're family. When both sisters swear, Jon asks Bran to reveal his true parentage: the son of Lyanna Stark and Rhaegar Targaryen, and the subsequent heir to the Iron Throne.
Later, Tyrion finds a shaken Sansa looking at Daenerys's dragons in the sky. She asks why Tyrion would choose to follow Daenerys. Tyrion replies that Daenerys loves Sansa's brother, but Sansa says it doesn't mean she'll be a good queen. Tyrion notes Sansa's dislike of Daenerys but says that a good relationship between the North and the capital has been beneficial. Sansa doesn't think this will be a problem, since Jon is Warden of the North and he loves the Queen. Tyrion realizes something is wrong and asks Sansa to look at him. He urges her to find common ground with Daenerys as Jon won't be spending much time in the North from now on. Sansa wonders what Tyrion is worried about as Daenerys seems to have everything she needs. When Tyrion urges Sansa not to provoke Daenerys, Sansa realizes he's afraid of her. She anxiously tells Tyrion she doesn't want Jon going south, the men in her family never do well there. Tyrion agrees but quips that Jon once told him he's not a Stark. This rattles Sansa, prompting Tyrion to ask if she's alright. He tries to convince her of Daenerys but Sansa is not receptive. As Tyrion leaves, Sansa has a change of heart and goes against her promise to Jon, telling Tyrion that there is somebody better for the Iron Throne.
Sansa later receives word of the ambush on the Targaryen fleet in which Rhaegal was killed, while Missandei is captured. She tells Jaime that she wanted to see his sister executed, but that it will likely not happen due to this setback.
Sansa is crowned Queen in the North.
Several weeks following the Battle of King's Landing, after which Daenerys lays waste to its surrendered populace and she is assassinated by Jon to stop her destruction, Sansa journeys to King's Landing. She takes command of the northern forces and stations them outside of the city. She does this to ensure the safety of herself and the other lords and ladies inside Kings's Landing, where she attends a great council in the dragonpit to decide the future of Westeros with the rest of the council. While Bran is elected as King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, Sansa holds to her convictions and requests that the North become an independent realm once more, to which Bran agrees. Jon is sentenced to rejoin the Night's Watch, and Arya intends to sail west of the Sunset Sea. After saying her goodbyes to her siblings, Sansa returns to Winterfell and is crowned Queen in the North.
When she lived at Winterfell with her family, Sansa grew up as the eldest daughter of a Great House, trying to emulate her mother's example of a "proper lady" from the southern courts. Sansa's devotion to the traditional, refined "feminine virtues" caused friction between her and her blunt, tomboyish younger sister Arya, with whom she had a sibling rivalry. As a little girl, Sansa naively believed in the tales and epic romances in which every princess gets her honorable knight in shining armor to sweep her off her feet. Sansa was infatuated with the traditional romances about mythical figures like Jonquil, and historical figures like Duncan Targaryen. Her greatest goal in life was to be married to a heroic and handsome prince, sitting around with other noblewomen eating lemon cakes while gossiping about the goings-on at court.
Sansa's innocent, childhood infatuation with the ideals of princesses and knights made her tragically susceptible to the manipulations of the Lannisters. She held the blind belief that all queens and princes are kind and truthful, as if inherently a result of their titles, when Cersei just happened to be a woman who married a king to secure a marriage alliance, and Joffrey just happened to be her son. Without real cause, she blindly loved Joffrey with all her heart and trusted and admired Cersei, only for them to repay her love and trust by beheading her father before her very eyes.
Afterwards, Sansa has a harrowing experience as a prisoner of the Lannisters, a plaything for the psychopathic Joffrey to have publicly beaten by his guards for petty amusement. Her shock at the death of her father was only later deepened at the news of how her mother and brother Robb were horrifically killed at the Red Wedding and their corpses desecrated. She was visibly elated upon hearing that Arya, Bran, and Rickon were actually still alive, and though she took mostly after her mother and had a somewhat distant relationship with Jon, she loved him all the same. She was surprised to hear that Jon had become Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, and Jon was the first person she turns to for shelter after escaping Winterfell, aware that he would protect her from Ramsay.
Sansa subsequently escapes King's Landing to the Vale with Littlefinger, and her experiences have clearly changed her personality. She had to learn from painful experience how to lie to survive at Joffrey's court, saying one thing but meaning another and manipulating people to her own ends as best she could. No longer under constant control by Joffrey and Cersei's guards, she is in her own way beginning to mature into her own power and influence as a political force.
The numerous tragedies she has suffered, and the crimes against herself and her family, have also darkened her personality turning her more ruthless, though not quite cruel. This shows when she refuses to take Theon's arm when he comes to escort her to the Godswood to marry Ramsay and coldly asks if he thinks she cares what Ramsay will do to him if she doesn't. She also later expresses approval of what Ramsay did to Theon, now Reek, and declares she would do the same. Once reclaiming Winterfell, Sansa feeds her abusive husband, Ramsay to his own hounds, even smiling as it happened.
However, despite all the suffering that she has been through, Sansa appears to have retained a certain degree of compassion that is also demonstrated in her multiple attempts at reaching out to Theon after Theon admits that he did not kill Bran and Rickon and they are alive. After Theon helps her escape from Winterfell, Sansa once again sees Theon as a surrogate brother and promises she will not let Jon execute him when Theon fears Jon will have him killed for his crimes. Sansa also becomes more compassionate and a loyal sister to Jon and apologizes for being "awful" when they were children. When she faces Myranda for the last time prior to her escape from Winterfell, Sansa was about to allow the psychopathic girl to shoot her so that she could die with as much of herself as was remaining. She has also become significantly more brave, courageous and is developing nerves of iron.
Sansa's sufferings have made her stronger and more mature, but also more war-like. Caring less for the traditional feminine virtues she used to praise as a child, Sansa moves against Ramsay in order to take back Winterfell and the North, and outright rejects his conditions for saving her brother Rickon, knowing full well he would never keep his word and instead tells him that he will die the next day. Her experiences with the Lannisters have enabled her to watch in grim satisfaction as Ramsay is torn apart and eaten by his own hounds. This contrasts her visible horror in Season 1 upon seeing the violence when she first arrived in King's Landing, where she is distressed at Gregor Clegane's violence against Ser Hugh and Loras Tyrell and faints when her father is abruptly beheaded in front of her. Sansa is also effective as Lady of Winterfell and Jon's regent, devoting her efforts to maintaining order and preparing the North for winter, for which she earns the respect of many Vale and Northern lords.
Due to the harrowing experiences of the Stark children, Sansa experiences a development in the relationships with her surviving siblings when they are reunited. Though she and Jon were the least close of the Stark children, they love one another as siblings and their relationship as brother and sister become stronger when they are reunited. While Sansa will argue with Jon, she speaks to him as an equal, wants to see him safe, and Turner observes Sansa's relationship with Jon has restored Sansa's faith in men. While Jon remains a protective older brother to Sansa and likewise wants her safe, he also recognizes Sansa's intelligence and her adeptness as a leader, placing the North in her charge as his regent. Sansa and Arya did not get along as children and though they love each other, experience a rocky start after their reunion in Season 7 due to their experiences. Nonetheless, they come to recognize new strengths in one another: Arya's skills as a combatant and Sansa's abilities as Lady of Winterfell. By the end of Season 7, their relationship grows stronger and they develop a new closeness as sisters. Sansa is relieved and happy to be reunited with Bran but is unsettled by the changes he has undergone as a result of becoming the Three-Eyed Raven. Regardless, she asks for Bran's help in using his powers to look into Littlefinger's past and upon learning the truth, decide to put Littlefinger on trial to answer for his crimes.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Sansa enjoys conventional "ladylike" pursuits, with a keen interest in music, poetry, singing, literature, history, dancing and embroidery. She was taught to play the High harp by Lady Leonette. She has a romantic notion of handsome princes and knights fighting honorably for love and loyalty. She is sharply contrasted with her far less idealistic and tomboyish younger sister, Arya.
Due to a time jump which was originally planned in the books but later dropped, Sansa is only 11 years old when the narrative begins. Author George R.R. Martin himself has said that he would have aged-up the younger characters had he initially known he would abandon the time-jump. Therefore, in the TV series' timeline, all of the younger characters including Sansa have been aged up two years from the books. Thus, Sansa is 13 years old in Season 1, and 14 years old in Season 2. Keeping in mind that in medieval times, the age of maturity was lower than it is today, this younger age in the books isn't quite as unusual as it sounds, but due to the abandoned time jump, this still causes some discrepancies. For example, in the books, Joffrey's torment of Sansa doesn't have quite the same inherent sexual tension to it because they're both two years younger. Sansa directly states that she is 13 years old in dialogue from the pilot episode of Season 1. On her wedding night with Tyrion Lannister, however, she says that she is 14 years old when she should be 15 years old because it's been two years since the pilot episode. It is possible that she either simply had not reached her nameday and turned exactly 15 yet, or that she was lying to try to shame Tyrion before he took her virginity (though as it turned out, Tyrion still refused to consummate the marriage, morally repulsed at being forced to marry such a young girl).
A subplot in the books which is only somewhat alluded to in the TV series is that in her desperation, Sansa starts latching onto the idea of Sandor Clegane as her protector from Joffrey or a potential source of an escape attempt.
In sharp contrast to Arya, Sansa is very timid, passive and submissive, waiting for things to happen rather than take active actions. She steps out of her passivity only on rare occasions, like the time she intervened to save Ser Dontos or her momentary intent to kill Joffrey, but these are exceptions; during the entire time she was held captive at the Red Keep, she did not make even the slightest effort to find a way to escape.
In the books, Sansa is shown to be partially responsible for her father's arrest by revealing to Cersei his plan to have his daughters leave the capital city. Given that she is only a naive eleven-year-old, and that Eddard didn't give her any explanation for why he wanted to send her away from King's Landing, she assumed he was simply fighting with Cersei over some matter of state. Still enraptured with the idea of staying and marrying Joffrey, Sansa thought that if she told Cersei she would then smooth over whatever disagreement they had. Yet the main fault is Eddard's, for foolishly revealing his cards to Cersei, and even more foolishly - putting his trust in Littlefinger and revealing his plan to him. Thus Littlefinger and Cersei knew what Eddard planned to do and had time to prepare counter-measures, regardless of what Sansa told Cersei.
When dealing with cruel or frightening people, Sansa uses her courtesy as an armor, as taught by septa Mordane, but it does not protect her from Joffrey's cruelty. She is often beaten by any of the Kingsguard (except the Hound), whenever Joffrey feels she needs to be taught a lesson. On one occasion, Joffrey decides that beating Sansa is not enough, and orders Meryn Trant and Boros Blount to strip her; only Tyrion's intervention prevents something worse.
Sansa technically gained the title of "princess" when her brother Robb was declared the new King in the North. While her brothers Bran and Rickon use the title of "prince" among the Northerners at Winterfell, Sansa's storyline involves her being held as a prisoner at King Joffrey's court in King's Landing. The Lannisters refuse to acknowledge the North's claims of independence so they don't refer to Sansa as "princess." Meanwhile, Sansa is in fear for her life and is subjected to frequent beatings at the hands of the Kingsguard at Joffrey's whim, so she doesn't refer to herself as "princess" for fear of angering her captors. Thus her title is rarely, if ever, invoked (unless Robb and Catelyn in the Northern camp are discussing her captivity).
Unlike in the show, Sansa does not befriend Shae and does not trust her. Shae does whatever Sansa tells her, but sometimes, she gives Sansa insolent looks. Sansa has no idea why Shae looks at her this way, for Sansa does not know Shae is her husband Tyrion's lover.
Following Sansa's escape from King's Landing, Littlefinger takes her first to his ancestral home at the Fingers. There he reveals Sansa part of the scheme to murder Joffrey; he does not reveal what his motive was, nor why it was necessary to involve her in the scheme.
As a precaution, Sansa's hair is dyed black (as her auburn hair would reveal her as a Tully) and is given the alias of "Alayne Stone", Littlefinger's bastard daughter who recently decided to seek him out after having been entrusted to the Faith of the Seven. Sansa keeps her true identity hidden whilst in the Vale; starting from her second POV chapter of A Feast for Crows, she is no longer described as "Sansa" in the text but as "Alayne," even in her own thoughts. In the show, she is introduced simply as "Alayne", a niece of Petyr, who makes only a vague attempt to hide her hair; she later dyes it of her own volition.
Sansa has no idea that Littlefinger was involved in her father's downfall, but knows well that he is treacherous and cannot be trusted. She separates "Littlefinger" from "Petyr" in her mind: Petyr is the kind man who saved her from the Lannisters, and who loved her mother, but she knows Littlefinger exists within him, and he was never her friend: she remembers him smiling slyly and whispering in Cersei's ear; she reminds herself that whenever she was in danger, Tyrion and the Hound were the ones who saved her, not him; she knows about his part in Jon Arryn's death (Lysa reveals that in her presence); she saw him killing two people - Ser Dontos and her aunt - the latter by his own hands.
Sansa's near-death experience demonstrates her submissive personality very clearly: when Lysa accuses her of seducing Littlefinger, all the courage Sansa gathered prior to the confrontation instantly vanishes. Lysa orders her to open the Moon Door, and she complies, foolishly thinking that her deranged aunt would let her go, thus nearly getting herself killed (though she puts up some fight). Only Littlefinger's intervention saves her.
In sharp contrast to the show, Sansa does not become full of confidence overnight following her aunt's death. She does not lie to the lords about Lysa's death at her own behest, but under the command of Littlefinger; she shivers in fear when Nestor Royce inquires about Lysa, barely managing to lie that Marillion was the one who pushed Lysa to her death, and nearly faints when Littlefinger says "it was I who killed her" (as if talking metaphorically); during the meeting with the Lords Declarant, she is overcome with fear when Yohn Royce looks at her closely and asks "Do I know you, girl?" (it is unclear if he recognizes her).
During her time in the Vale, Sansa becomes more astute in political affairs as the protégé of Littlefinger. This subtle change in her personality is different from the more drastic one in the show. She watches Littlefinger's manipulations of Lord Nestor Royce and the Lords Declarant, but generally remains timid, passive and obedient as ever: she never questions Littlefinger's actions and plans; when he tells that he intends to wed her to Harrold Harding, she does not object even slightly (only pointing out that she is still married to Tyrion); she has no idea about the current events out of the Vale and particularly in the North (except she learns her half-brother Jon has become the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch), that Edmure is held captive at the Twins, and that Riverrun is under siege; she does not even know who currently holds her home and does not bother to ask; she does not take any actions to help either her uncle or her great-uncle.
Although Littlefinger does not intend to keep Sansa to himself, there are hints he lusts after her, perhaps because she resembles her mother: he occasionally gives her not-so-fatherly kisses, and once touched her left breast, while telling her "You are Alayne, and you must be Alayne all the time. Even here. In your heart."
Sansa finds her cousin Robert Arryn (in the show he is called "Robin") pitiful and repulsive. After the incident with the snow castle, she thinks angrily that even Joffrey had more spine than Robert. Still, after Lysa's death, Sansa feels sorry for him and treats him patiently as she can. At one occasion, he demands "a hundred lemon cakes and five tales", Sansa's patience nearly runs out and she feels like giving him "a hundred spankings and five slaps", but restrains herself (unlike in the show). Robert, who has no idea of "Alayne"'s true identity, initially declares he hates her for ripping his doll, but after Lysa's death he forms a strong attachment to her, even sleeping in her bed at night as he used to do in his mother's. Sansa wouldn't have minded if he only slept, but since he tries to nuzzle at her breasts and wets the bed during his seizures - she asks Lothor Brune to lock his door.
In a sample chapter of The Winds of Winter, Robert tells Alayne she should marry him. Sansa, who does not have the heart to tell Robert her negative opinion of him, tells him gently but firmly it is out of the question: as the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale, he must wed a highborn lady and father a son - not a bastard, otherwise his bannermen will claim that Littlefinger made him do that, and put her and "her father" to death. In the chapter, preparations are being made for a tourney, as suggested by Sansa to Littlefinger as a means of orchestrating a meeting between Sansa and Harrold Hardyng. Sansa finds Harold attractive, but immediately reminds herself the bitter lesson she learned long ago - not to judge people by their physical appearance; she recalls that Joffrey was comely but a monster, but Tyrion was unattrative but kind to her. Harrold initially speaks to her rudely, calling her "Littlefinger's bastard", nearly moving her to tears; later he apologizes. Sansa treats him courteously but coldly, as Littlefinger instructed her - to charm Harrold but not to look too eager. To test his honesty, Sansa asks him about his bastard daughters, and he answers openly. Harrold asks to wear her favor in the tourney, but she refuses, claiming it is promised to another.
Sansa's Season 5 story arc diverged significantly from that in the books. Littlefinger does not arrange for her to marry Ramsay Bolton, whom she never meets, and indeed she does not even leave the Vale. Instead, she is betrothed to Harrold Hardyng, Robert Arryn's presumptive heir, should the weak and sickly Robert die prematurely, as Littlefinger expects (perhaps he intends to "help" Robert die). His plan is to wed Sansa to Harold, and for Sansa to reveal her identity to everyone present during the wedding, in order to gain the support of the knights in the Vale for winning her birthright back. Littlefinger says nothing about the Boltons or any military campaigns, since his plans will take several years to come to fruition - the marriage cannot take place before Robert dies, Sansa is widowed and Cersei is done, and there is no way to know in advance who will hold Winterfell and rule the North at that future point.
In the books, Sansa's storyline in season five is played out by her best friend Jeyne Poole, who is forced to masquerade as Arya Stark. Jeyne's story is almost identical to Sansa's season five storyline, although it is not Brienne who offers Jeyne her help if she needs it (indeed, Brienne has not met the Stark girls by the point the books reached). Instead, it is Mance Rayder who infiltrates Winterfell as a bard to rescue her on the orders of Jon, Sansa's half-brother. Also, Jeyne never tries to escape Winterfell on her own and does not attempt to force Theon into helping her as she is mentally in a much worse state than Sansa is in while Sansa is married to Ramsay in the show. In the books, while Jeyne is being tormented, Sansa is safe in the Vale, surrounded by friendly people like Myranda Royce and Mya Stone (the elder of Robert's bastards).
Sansa believes herself the last of the Starks, except for Jon, after hearing the news about the alleged deaths of Bran and Rickon and about the Red Wedding. Although she has no idea what has become of Arya, she presumes her dead, too.
Sansa does not make an appearance in the fifth novel A Dance with Dragons. She is mentioned several times by various characters: Theon remembers a time when he had thought that Eddard might marry him to Sansa and claim him for a son, but realizes that had only been a child's fancy; Tyrion speaks about her with his dwarf companion Penny; Cersei recalls that Petyr Baelish had offered to wed her, but was denied because he was much too lowborn; and Jon tells Stannis that Winterfell belongs to Sansa and thinks of Sansa alongside their other siblings while he decides what to do after receiving Ramsay's letter.
There is a fan theory that the book scene, in which Sansa builds a snow model of Winterfell and Littlefinger helps her (its analogous show scene in "Mockingbird") is a foreshadowing that she and Jon, with Littlefinger's help, will restore both their home and House Stark. In view of the finale of season 6, it may actually happen in the books too.
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Sansa" is pronounced "SAHN-suh" (i.e. between "San-suh" and "Sohn-suh").
Among the powerful noble families of the Seven Kingdoms, women will retain the use of their maiden name if their family is more powerful or ancient than their husband's family.
In Westeros, only members of noble Houses typically have surnames (i.e. "Eddard Stark" is actually "Eddard of House Stark" in full). The nobility of the Seven Kingdoms is formed of roughly five tiers, which in descending order are: the royal family that controls the Iron Throne, the Great Houses who rule entire regions, the major noble Houses, the lesser noble Houses, and the knightly Houses. The Targaryens were the royal family though they were recently supplanted by the Baratheons. Great Houses rule each of the formerly independent "Seven Kingdoms" - such as the Starks who rule the North, the Lannisters who rule the Westerlands, and the Tyrells who rule the Reach. Major Houses are those under the Great Houses, such as House Umber which serves the Starks, or House Redwyne which serves the Tyrells. Underneath them are the lesser noble Houses (i.e. House Poole), and below them are knightly Houses (i.e. House Clegane): the difference between the two is that lesser Lords still have the right to dispense justice on their lands while knights do not.
Typically, if a noblewoman marries above her station into a more powerful family, she will switch to publicly using that family name. For example, "Olenna Tyrell" was born Olenna Redwyne, but the Tyrells are the Redwyne's overlords so she switched to use of that name. A noblewoman who married below her station would defiantly continue to use the name of the more prestigious family she was born into.
Given that the Starks and Lannisters were both Great Houses of equal social rank and both former royal houses, it isn't automatically assumed that Sansa would switch to being known as "Sansa Lannister." The major factor is that Sansa was forced into a marriage to a similarly unwilling husband by her captors. Theirs also remains an unconsummated marriage. Such unconsummated marriages can be annulled (not automatically as Littlefinger says in the show, though), but since both Sansa and Tyrion are wanted for regicide and far away from each other - it will be very difficult, though not impossible, to annul their marriage. Moreover, the books do not specify the requirements for an annulment (whether both husband and wife must attend, who is authorized to perform the annulment, etc.), thus it is unknown how difficult it will be to annul the marriage.
Sansa believes that her marriage to Tyrion is valid, as she reminds Littlefinger on the fourth novel when he reveals his plans to marry her to Harrold Hardyng. It is unclear whether Sansa knows her marriage can be annulled; Littlefinger never brings up this option. He assures her it is not a problem, her intended marriage must wait until "Cersei is done and Sansa's safely widowed." In addition, she could get married as her disguise, Alayne Stone.
In the third novel A Storm of Swords, the old woods witch known as the Ghost of High Hill speaks about Sansa: "I dreamt of a maid at a feast with purple serpents in her hair, venom dripping from their fangs. And later I dreamt that maid again, slaying a savage giant in a castle built of snow." The first past of the prophecy is clearly about the Purple Wedding.
It has yet to be seen how and when the second part of the prophecy comes true; it is doubtful the prophecy refers to the scene involving Sansa, Robert Arryn and his doll, and the snow castle (the parallel show scene takes place in "Mockingbird").
A category for Lords of Winterfell.
All items (11)
This category is for Kings in the North.
All items (12)
Advanced
Advanced Search Options
4,842 results
movies
100K Pages
100K Images
1 Video
Wookieepedia is a wiki-based online encyclopedia that contains detailed information about the Star Wars universe, including movies, books, video games, characters, locations, technology, weapons, vehicles, and everything in between.

Founded in 2005, Wookieepedia has over 180,000 articles, covering everything from the…
This category is for individuals who narrate Conquest & Rebellion: An Animated History of the Seven Kingdoms.
All items (6)
This category is for individuals who narrate Histories & Lore.
All items (48)
A list of all the ladies in the wiki.
Note: most women become a Lady through their marriage with a lord, the head of a house. Some women become the head of a house in their own right, as for instance Maege Mormont.
All items (65)
You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reason:
The action you have requested is limited to users in one of the groups: Users, FANDOM Helpers, Wiki Representatives, Wiki Specialists.
You can view and copy the source of this page.
Templates used on this page:
Return to Sansa Stark.
This category is for individuals appearing in Game of Thrones.
All items (594)
This category is for pages that are in need of citations.
All items (404)
This sub-category contains articles on all members of House Bolton, by birth or marriage.
All items (8)
This sub-category contains articles on all members of House Lannister.
All items (37)
This sub-category contains articles on all members of House Stark.
All items (26)
This category is a complete catalog of all Northmen.
All items (164)
The princesses in Westeros - past and present, actual and disputed.
All items (36)
A list of all queens, past and present.
All items (33)
This category is for regents.
All items (15)
A ruling lady is the head of her house and lady in her own right, not as the wife of her lord husband. Per custom, inheritance passes to the eldest daughter if she has no brothers or her brothers are dead, or in Dorne, to the eldest child regardless of sex.
All items (20)
A category for Westeros' Wardens of the North, East, South and West.
All items (26)
This category is for all characters who were raised as wards.
All items (13)
Diff selection: Mark the radio buttons of the revisions to compare and hit enter or the button at the bottom.
Legend: (cur) = difference with latest revision, (prev) = difference with preceding revision, m = minor edit.
Although Sansa's married name is Lannister now, shouldn't the page still be named Sansa Stark? It's what the audience knows her as. Or am I wrong? What's the policy on this? E.g.: Cersei Lannister's page isn't called Cersei Baratheon.
Lionheartedcat (talk) 18:19, May 26, 2013 (UTC)
How bout' we take a poll and see what others think? That might be the best bet:
Comment: Under that reasoning, Margaery should be Margaery Baratheon and Cersei should be Cersei Baratheon. Keep it as it is.--Gonzalo84 (talk) 15:04, May 27, 2013 (UTC)
TargaryenBlood Talk Contribs  15:40, May 27, 2013 (UTC)
I asked Werthead a similar question a while ago: with the most powerful noble families, women tend to use their maiden name if their family is more powerful than their husband's. For example, "Genna Lannister" married into House Frey, trash who are lower than the Lannisters, so she retains the name "Genna Lannister". Similarly, Cersei rarely if ever gets referred to as "Cersei Baratheon", as House Lannister is considered more prestigious (despite the fact that she married into the royal line, her father was basically bankrolling her husband's new regime). Margaery Tyrell continues to be known as "Margaery Tyrell" more than "Margaery Baratheon" after her marriage to Renly, as they want to stress that she's "Margaery of House Tyrell". Eleanor of Aquitaine didn't suddenly turn into Eleanor of England. Catelyn is commonly known as Catelyn Stark, though at times Catelyn Tully gets thrown around, but this is because the Starks are a more prestigious family than the Tullys (the Starks were kings of an entire region once, the Tullys were elevated by the Targaryens).
Book usage, at any rate, continues to call her "Sansa Stark", and we've seen examples of that with other women whose original Houses are so famous that they continue to be referred to by it, again as Cersei is "of House Lannister".
That being said, if the TV show at any point refers to Sansa as "Sansa Lannister" or "Sansa of House Lannister", that would be the condition for considering a name change. Sansa herself of course doesn't consider herself a Lannister, but I mean if...for example, if Cersei stresses introducing Sansa to Olenna at a social gathering as "Sansa Lannister", in dialogue on the TV show, then we might consider changing it.--The Dragon Demands (talk) 20:00, June 9, 2013 (UTC)
I know the books and the show are separate entities, but if this helps its right from the author's mouth. The show customs could be different, but in the books Westeros women aren't required to take their husband's last names. They can use the last names, as in the books where Catelyn is known as Stark formally while self-identifying as a Tully, or they can just go by their original house name, such as Cersei who is never known as a Baratheon. The SSM I linked confirms its not required, and that women don't do it if their family is higher born than their husbands. Stark and Lannister are about equal, at least in the book canon, so there's no reason for Sansa to go by Lannister. She's not required to and she doesn't want to. Hope this helps.
DennisStaples (talk) 04:40, October 18, 2013 (UTC)DennisStaples
In the new episode, when Brienne talks to Jaime, Jaime recalls Sansa as Sansa Lannister. Should we change? --Gladiatus (talk) 04:52, April 8, 2014 (UTC)
Hey, why in Sansa's allegiance, it's House Lannister, by forced allegiance. Almost every marriage in Westeros is forced, except in Dorne. Gladiatus (talk) 15:28, March 21, 2014 (UTC)
I think we should keep both of Sansa's infobox heraldry icons as "House Stark" - yes, even AWOIAF keeps the right one as House Lannister, but it isn't really accurate anymore.
She isn't "within Lannister control" or affiliated with them, her marriage was unconsummated (very important) and BOTH she and her erstwhile husband were forced into it, so I don't think it should really count anymore. Or at least, that it would be needlessly confusing to list her under it in terms of faction alignment (if we had a good image of Baelish heraldry, we might use that).--The Dragon Demands (talk) 01:37, June 15, 2014 (UTC)
...when she marries Ramsay we'll switch it to one Stark, one Bolton.--The Dragon Demands (talk) 16:56, May 2, 2015 (UTC)
That doesn't really answer my question. She isn't a member of House Baelish in any capacity, so why is it reflected in her heraldry?. Her heraldry should be eithet 2 stark (seeing as she's not married to Ramsay yet and the show appears to be side stepping her marriage to Tyrion) or 1 stark 1 lannister. 1 stark 1 baelish makes no sense. (82.40.232.15 17:19, May 2, 2015 (UTC))
I did answer your question; yeah we removed the Baelish sigil.--The Dragon Demands (talk) 15:18, May 3, 2015 (UTC)
You actually didn't answer my question, but it doesn't matter now that it's been fixed. Thanks to whomever made the change. (82.40.232.15 20:18, May 3, 2015 (UTC))
In Westeros, noblewomen do not automatically take the family name of their husband, if their own House is considered more prestigious -- this is informal and often a matter of custom.
Hence Margaery Tyrell remains "Margaery Tyrell", "Cersei Lannister" remains "Cersei Lannister", etc.
To this end, we should keep referring to as "Sansa Stark" -- unless the TV show officially switches to calling her "Sansa Bolton" in all major guides and listings.
Hypothetically it would also conflict with her non-consummated but also non-annulled marriage to Tyrion Lannister.--The Dragon Demands (talk) 23:07, May 18, 2015 (UTC)
So what is up with the user who edited the page to change rape into "roughly consummate"? 108.30.151.98 02:31, May 21, 2015 (UTC)
Why is the head picture from Season 2 or 3 instead of 5? —ArticXiongmao (talk) 21:32, May 28, 2015 (UTC)
I suggest this quote: "If I'm going to die, let it happen while there's still some of me left." --Mesmermann (talk) 23:00, June 15, 2015 (UTC)
I know this is a stupid nit pick, but is there any need to specify an Andal influence? Sansa is just as much a Northmen as her siblings and she's not the only one who had fantasies of southern traditions (Bran wanted to be a knight, etc). I also think it's clear that given what she went through in King's Landing that she's 100% done with all of that nonsense now. 82.40.232.15 11:31, June 19, 2015 (UTC)
Theon and Sansa's status should be "Alive". It has been confirmed in this interview, among other important topics, that they did survive the jump. Take a look. http://variety.com/2015/tv/news/game-of-thrones-season-5-finale-jon-stannis-deaths-david-nutter-1201520137/ Mikividosevicgasparotti (talk) 12:06, July 2, 2015 (UTC)
Why do some of the names in "family" section of the infobox have curly brackets around them? what do they mean? 73.170.64.226 05:47, May 10, 2016 (UTC)
The title of Warden or Wardeness is awarded by the King on the Iron Throne to his allies, and it literally means 'someone who guards this place for the King.' The title isn't interchangeable with the lordship of a Great House. For example, Robin Arryn is Lord Paramount of the Vale, though the title 'Warden of the East' was denied to him because he wasn't of age. Typically, this title will stay amongst a house, but it belongs to the King to bestow- in this case, Tommen. I don't see any reason to assume that he granted Sansa- a rebel, outlaw, and alleged assassin- this title. I'm removing it It should be removed until there is on-screen confirmation of her receiving this title.184.75.148.90 20:47, June 20, 2016 (UTC)Fr3twork
I made an account to try and change it, but the page seems to be locked. Fr3twork (talk) 21:02, June 20, 2016 (UTC)Fr3twork
Don't bother, the admins are pricks they lock almost every single fucking page forever. It's getting pointless to even try and contribute to this wiki if you're not an admid cos you simply can't--199.212.87.83 21:29, June 20, 2016 (UTC)Ecker
She is the Lady of Winterfell and Lady Paramount of the North. The long-term objective and reasoning behind the Battle of the Bastards was to re-establish House Stark as rulers of Winterfell and unite the entire North,  and to prepare for the white walkers . In order to do that they had to overthrow Ramsay, the current lord of Winterfell and Lord Paramount of the North. With him dead, those titles are now Sansa's, through her marriage to Ramsay, as the last known legitimate heir to Ned Stark (former Lord of Winterfell/Warden of the North/Lord Paramount of the North), and conquest. Those titles will remain unless she is killed.--Kai200995 (talk) 13:19, June 21, 2016 (UTC)
Lord Paramount of the North is a title granted by the King and King Tommen has not named Sansa his Lord Paramount of the North.
Regards Ser Shield McShield (talk) 18:54, June 21, 2016 (UTC)
When Ramsay told Sansa that there will always be a piece of him within her - whatever the exact quote - was Ramsay hinting that Sansa is pregnant with his child? Sansa got raped nightly - that's probably going to result in a pregnancy?
Follow-up question - if so, does Sansa smother her newborn to make sure there are no more Boltons?
Ser Shield McShield (talk) 03:34, June 22, 2016 (UTC)
I think she took moon tea, to prevent pregnancy! LordofBraxis (talk) 18:47, June 22, 2016 (UTC)
Sansa took a huge tumble from the walls of Winterfell, I doubt any unborn baby would have survived that. But say that the baby did, I'm sure it's been weeks, if not months since Sansa escaped from Winterfell, if she were pregnant, it would have showed by now. Ramsay didn't know if she's pregnant. I think all he meant is that the physical and psychological trauma that he inflicted upon her will always be with her, He took away a part of her dignity that she will never get back, and in that way, she will never truly be able to "kill" him, in the metaphorical sense. Dead people aren't truly dead until they are forgotten. Earlier in the season she mentioned to Littlefinger that she can still feel what Ramsay did to her, standing right there. Ramsay was probably confident that she would forever be reminded of what he did to her, and by extension, of him. That way, he would never truly "die". Please put this awful theory to rest. FiniteTsukuyomi (talk) 16:28, June 25, 2016 (UTC)
Jon being King, is robbing Sansa and Bran of their birth right especially now its been confirmed that Ned is not his father Bree 03:37, June 27, 2016 (UTC)
There's an ongoing discussion of the head/lord of House Stark. Here's the thread link: http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Thread:47132#16. Add some input, there's a poll too for those who love voting. Admins, there's an edit war, your involvement in the thread is recommended. --Kai200995 (talk) 15:39, June 30, 2016 (UTC)
Her name needs to be changed. She never got her married annulled so she is now officially a Lannister now.
Haha, not even. Cersei was never Cersei Baratheon, was she? There is no way anyone, let alone Sansa, would call her Sansa Lannister since her marriage was unconsummated and it was effectively annulled considering she married a Bolton. Plus, with the destruction of the Great Sept, there are like two people alive - Tyrion and Cersei - that even witnessed the marriage. Finally, with the Starks once again ruling their own kingdom, whoever marries Sansa will most likely change their name to Stark since it is the more powerful name. So no, she is not Sansa Lannister. She will always be Sansa Stark.
Regards Ser Shield McShield (talk) 19:54, July 3, 2016 (UTC)
Cersei, Margaery and Elia never changed their names because they were married into Royal houses. Every other woman changed her name. That's how it works in real history also when a woman is married into a Royal House,doesn't get the royal name.
Her marriage to Tyrion was annulled, and since Bolton is dead i guess she can keep her name. Because Snow is now King in the North, i don't know how it will work with Starks as royal house we have to wait and see. To have her children called Stark she will have to marry to a lesser house.(not that there are many Great Houses left).
I also don't understand why her marriage to Bolton is called forced. Despite the outcome (of course she was raped and abused) she agreed on the arrangment before.Basickk (talk) 08:55, July 5, 2016 (UTC)
Because they didn't bother to annul her marriage to Tyrion first, making it bigamous and therefore a sham marriage.--The Dragon Demands (talk) 01:37, July 6, 2016 (UTC)
Wasn't it public knowledge that Sansa's marriage to Tyrion was never consummated and therefore invalid from the get go? Even if it was consummated, how the heck were they supposed to annul it if both parties involved were accused of regicide and disappeared off the face of the earth as far as the Lannisters were concerned? FiniteTsukuyomi (talk) 15:54, July 6, 2016 (UTC)
One of the reasons we keep bringing this up is because the novels keep bringing it up more, suggesting it will be a factor later. Even when he's in Pentos Tyrion absent-mindedly wonders if he can later use his paper marriage to Sansa to his advantage (though for the moment he dismisses the idea as improbable given that he's just a refugee at this point).--The Dragon Demands (talk) 16:49, July 6, 2016 (UTC)
So I just added Lady of the Dreadfort to Sansa's titles because I think, due to her marriage to Ramsay, and considering that there are no other Boltons, she would inherit the lands and titles. I see her as being in the same position as Lady Dustin: her husband is dead and there are no others with his name, so she gets everything. I'm not totally sure though. Any thoughts?
Patrek Stark (talk) 21:27, July 16, 2016 (UTC)
I am begging you to remove this block. If you are fearing for the protection of the page, just block whoever (Mormont78) is causing these alterations.
IDONTCAREWHATANYONESAYSIAMTHEBIGGESTHPFAN (talk) 09:40, February 22, 2017 (UTC)
The "Uncertain Status" of House Stark has been resolved over the last two episodes.
Kai200995 (talk) 12:14, August 7, 2017 (UTC)
As far as I'm aware, lord paramountcy is not something that needs to be bestowed upon an individual like the position of Warden, but is actually inherited, though I'm not entirely sure about this. Jon has been confirmed as Warden of the North, thus Sansa doesn't hold that position, which doesn't have to be inherited. Would Sansa now hold the position of Lady Paramount of the North with Jon renouncing his kingship? I certainly do not believe Jon is Lord Paramount of the North. Reddyredcp (talk) 22:37, September 1, 2017 (UTC)
¯\_(ツ)_/¯    Too early to tell. We just saw the note Jon sent where he uses the title Warden of the North. But given how sloppy the writers have been with Season 7, there is a good chance that this will never be discussed. Plus, sure seems like Season 8 will have the White Walkers and the Army of the Dead rampaging (at walking speed) through the North, killing a ton of these characters. So it might be a moot point.
I've added the title under the same reasoning, but I'm still not sure whether the administrators are okay with this. If it gets undone by an administrator, I will not add it back. Vapingheathen (talk) 11:38, November 4, 2017 (UTC)
Not only is Lord Paramount a hereditary title, but all the minor Northern lords answer to Sansa. "Paramount" means "more important than anything else; supreme." or "having supreme power". The show has implied that she is the lady paramount for a long time now. VapingHeathen, the Raven 02:30, November 23, 2017 (UTC)
No. "Lord Paramount" is a title under the Iron Throne. Jon Snow or Sansa calling themselves "Lord Paramount" would be acknowledging their subservience to the Iron Throne, officially. Well, to Cersei or Joffrey.--The Dragon Demands (talk) 19:19, December 24, 2017 (UTC)
I was just rewatching, and in Season 4, Jaime says loud and clear "Sansa Stark is Sansa Lannister now". This debate about her surname should have ended long ago.
VapingHeathen, the Raven 02:16, December 19, 2017 (UTC)
So what if Jaime said that? That's just cherry picking one line of dialogue. Sansa herself clearly states that she is Sansa Stark when Myranda tried to intimidate her at Winterfell.
And her marriage to Tyrion was never consummated. And neither Tyrion or Sansa consider themselves married to each other.
Plus, no one ever calls Cersei "Cersei Baratheon", even though she was married to the King.
I don't know you keep beating this dead horse.
Regards, Ser Shield McShield (talk) 19:37, December 19, 2017 (UTC)
First of all, the debate about Sansa's surname DID end long ago. If you scroll up the page to where Dragon wrote this article will not be renamed, you will see it ended OVER FOUR YEARS AGO. Long before you or I joined this wiki. There is nothing incorrect with the name of Sansa's article. She is a Stark, not a Lannister. This matter has been closed for some time now, there is NO need to reopen it. So let's move on, shall we? Shaneymike (talk) 15:30, December 23, 2017 (UTC)
Not as a formal "title", but as a nickname on the scale of "little dove"...yeah, might as well put "Sansa Lannister" in there given that it's what the Lannisters tried to call her (it's on the level of calling Tyrion "The Imp"). But only in the infobox. The convoluted explanations in the intro paragraph were not necessary.--The Dragon Demands (talk) 19:14, December 24, 2017 (UTC)
I'd be happy to finish the Sansa related happenings in that episode if the page wasn't locked. Hope I'm not overstepping my bounds. Openminds (talk) 22:53, May 8, 2019 (UTC)
Stop reverting my work!!!!!!!! QueenBuffy 16:14, 22 July 2021 (UTC)
Much better quality - up to date. QueenBuffy 16:46, 22 July 2021 (UTC)
Is the main image displaying really small for anyone else? -  08:27, 1 May 2023 (UTC)
Great Houses (all former):House ArrynHouse Tully
Others (all former):{House Baelish}House Seaworth
The banner of House Stark of Winterfell, the rulers of the North.
House Stark of Winterfell is a Great House of Westeros and the royal house of the Kingdom of the North. They rule over the vast region known as the North from their seat in Winterfell. It is one of the oldest lines of Westerosi nobility by far, claiming a line of descent stretching back over eight thousand years. Before the Targaryen conquest, as well as during the War of the Five Kings and early on in Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros, the leaders of House Stark ruled over the region as the Kings in the North.
Their rule in the North seemingly ended after the events of the Red Wedding when House Frey and House Bolton betrayed House Stark after forming a secret alliance with House Lannister, during which Roose Bolton murdered King Robb Stark. Both the North and Winterfell were taken over by House Bolton. However, the Boltons' hold was jeopardized when Sansa Stark escaped their clutches after learning her brothers Bran and Rickon Stark were still alive and reunited with her half-brother, Jon Snow, at Castle Black. Sansa and Jon marched on the Boltons to save their younger brother Rickon, who was later murdered by Ramsay Bolton, and retake Winterfell. House Stark was restored to their former stature after the Battle of the Bastards. The Stark victory led to House Stark's return to royal status in the North with their bannermen declaring Jon as the King in the North. He later abdicated his title as king in order to gain the full support of Daenerys Targaryen in the Great War, becoming the Warden of the North. Following the Battle of King's Landing, Bran Stark was chosen as the new king of the Six Kingdoms, allowing the North to secede as an independent kingdom under Sansa.
House Stark's sigil is a grey direwolf on a white background, over green. They are one of the few noble houses whose words are not a boast or threat. Instead, the House Stark family motto is a warning, one that, no matter the circumstances, will always be relevant: "Winter Is Coming," which served as a reminder of their beginnings in the wake of the Long Night and a grim portent of things to come.
House Stark, as the only First Men dynasty to resist the Andal invasion, proudly hold on to the worship of the Old Gods. Due to their rule over the North and knowledge of it's troubles, they are unfailing supporters of the importance of the Night's Watch, despite it's fall from glory in current times. As one of the last remaining Valyrian steel items, from Old Valyria, House Stark greatly treasures it's ancestral sword of Ice, which has been used in battles and executions.
Before the Targaryen conquest, the leaders of House Stark ruled over the region as the Kings in the North. The house traces its roots to Bran the Builder, a legendary First Man who lived during the Age of Heroes and founded House Stark. The Starks were not originally the monarchs of the North; they began as vassals to the Barrow Kings, who lost support due to their inactive rule while their ancestor Bran the Builder built the Wall and protected the North. They warred with the Barrow Kings, emerging victorious. The Starks ruled as Kings of Winter over one of the many smaller, petty First Men kingdoms that were established in the North, with their chief rivals for domination being the Red Kings of House Bolton. Eventually the Starks united the North under them. Although their stronghold of Winterfell has been the capital of the North, war helped make it it's strongest castle, in opposition to the Reeds' Greywater Watch and the Dreadfort of House Bolton, with attacks from from the latter raising the need for more keeps, more walls, more guard towers and the expansion of their granaries and larders to survive sieges. Winter town would be raised from smallfolk seeking shelter from winter, and these would also join the Stark soldiers in fighting the Boltons.
They gained a new vassal from the Reach after House Manderly's exile, giving them a new home at White Harbor in exchange for their guarding the river against pirates. They defeated the Boltons, drove pirates away from the White Knife, slew the last Marsh King and wed his daughter for the Neck, with it's governance being given to House Reed and, according to legend, King Rodrik Stark wrestled with an ironborn for Bear Island and won, giving it to House Mormont. Karlon Stark, a younger son of the King in the North, was awarded lands in the eastern regions of the North after successfully putting down a rebellion led by House Bolton. Over time Karlon's seat of Karl's Hold came to be known as Karhold, and the Starks that descended from him became known as Karstarks.
Although the Starks had to content with defiant Houses in their unification campaign, some chose to submit and become loyal vassals, like the Umbers of Last Hearth and the Glovers of Deepwood Motte, with even their greatest rivals for dominance, the Red Kings of House Bolton, who made a sinister reputation for themselves with their practice of flaying, with one of them being notorious for ripping out the entrails of captive Starks, choosing to bend the knee, and their hostility being put on hold, due to the need for the end of unrest. Their timing proved crucial  just then, due to the Andals landing and invading Westeros, swiping all lands of First Men rule except the North due to the other Houses fighting on their own, while the North opposed with a united front, with the Manderlys attacking their ships and the Reeds attacking their incursions into the Neck.
King Torrhen Stark was on the throne at the time of the War of Conquest and marched his army south to face them. He surrendered when he saw the Targaryens' greater host and their dragons, despite being suggested to resist from Moat Cailin or assassinating the sleeping dragons, believing that fighting was futile, due to the Targaryen victories at the Burning of Harrenhal and the Field of Fire. He was made Warden of the North, thus escaping the fates of House Gardener of the Reach and House Hoare of the Riverlands whose lords refused to bend the knee and were rendered extinct after failing to resist the invaders. Thereafter, Torrhen was known as "the king who knelt", though those who criticize him for this often forget that they are only alive to do so thanks to his surrender.
Centuries later, Lady Lyanna Stark was taken by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, and when her father and brother demanded justice, King Aerys II Targaryen had them both viciously executed. Eddard Stark claimed his father's titles and participated in Robert's Rebellion. At the end of the rebellion, Eddard found his sister in the Tower of Joy, where she perished in a bed of blood.
Eddard is married to Lady Catelyn Tully of Riverrun, and has five children with her: Robb, Sansa, Arya, Bran, and Rickon. He also has a rumored bastard son, Jon Snow, who is actually the offspring of Prince Rhaegar and Lady Lyanna.
Lord Eddard "Ned" Stark becomes Hand of the King to King Robert Baratheon after the death of Jon Arryn. Ned takes his daughters Sansa and Arya to King's Landing. It is there that he discovers the true lineage of Robert's assumed children. Upon Robert's death, Ned publicly declares that Joffrey Baratheon was the product of incest between Queen Cersei Lannister and her twin brother, Jaime Lannister, and therefore is not the rightful heir to the Iron Throne. He is subsequently executed for treason. His firstborn son and heir Robb is declared the King in the North by his bannermen (the first in 300 years), and fights to secede from the Seven Kingdoms in what would become the War of the Five Kings. Sansa becomes a political captive of House Lannister, while Arya escapes King's Landing with Yoren of the Night's Watch.
Robb continues his campaign against the Lannisters, winning a trio of victories in the Riverlands and a further three victories in the Westerlands. Bran and Rickon leave Winterfell after a traitorous Theon Greyjoy takes control of Winterfell. Theon kills two farmer's sons and declares their bodies are those of Bran and Rickon, leading the majority of Westeros believing that all the male Stark heirs are dead (as Jon is a bastard son of Ned Stark and sworn to the Night's Watch). Arya is held captive at Harrenhal, but escapes with Gendry and Hot Pie.
Although Robb continues to win every battle that he fights, House Lannister secures an alliance with House Tyrell that effectively leads to victory over Stannis Baratheon at the Battle of the Blackwater. As Robb continues to march further in the Westerlands, many of his bannermen begin to lose faith in him since he breached his pact with Lord Walder Frey by marrying Talisa Maegyr.
Robb and Talisa Stark lie dead at the Red Wedding.
Robb also loses the Karstark troops, and his attempt to regain the support of House Frey results in the massacre known as the Red Wedding. House Stark is stripped of its lordship in the North and is given to House Bolton, making Roose Bolton Warden of the North for his contribution to Robb's death.
Arya and her companions are taken captive by the Brotherhood Without Banners. After Sandor Clegane's trial by combat ordered by Beric, the Hound kidnaps Arya.
At the Twins, the Freys and Boltons betray Robb and massacre him, his wife, mother, Grey Wind, the present Northern lords and most of the Northern army, during the event known as the Red Wedding. House Stark is stripped of its lordship in the North, which is given to House Bolton, making Roose Bolton Warden of the North for his contribution to Robb's death.
Bran and Rickon, who have been traveling north along with Osha, Hodor, Jojen Reed and Meera Reed, as well as their two direwolves, Summer and Shaggydog, part ways.
Sansa escapes from King's Landing, following Joffrey's assassination.
Bran makes his way further north, eventually reaching the weirwood tree occupied by the Children of the Forest and the Three-Eyed Raven.
After travelling for days with the Hound, Arya travels to Braavos.
Littlefinger secretly returns Sansa to Winterfell and weds her to Ramsay Bolton. Although Sansa doesn't quite realize it, there are many in the North who are already taking heart from the fact that there is again a Stark in Winterfell. Sansa eventually flees Winterfell during the Battle of Winterfell.
Jon Snow and Sansa Stark reunite.
Sansa and Jon reunite. They gather troops of wildlings and loyal Northern houses to retake Winterfell from the Boltons.
Meanwhile, Bran experiences a vision of his family while training with the Three-Eyed Raven.
As the Battle of the Bastards begins, Rickon is killed by Ramsay, but the Starks win with the help of the Knights of the Vale. Winterfell is finally restored to House Stark.
Jon Snow is hailed King in the North.
The lords of the North and the Vale meet at Winterfell. Jon is declared the King in the North.
In the Riverlands, Arya slays Lord Frey and many of his kin, finally avenging the North.
At Winterfell, Jon and Sansa organize the defense of the North against the army of the dead.
Jon sails to Dragonstone to negotiate with Daenerys Targaryen. Bran returns to Winterfell.
The surviving Stark siblings are reunited.
Arya returns to Winterfell and reunites with Sansa and Bran. Littlefinger unsuccessfully tries to drive a wedge between the Starks.
Jon decides to head beyond the wall in order to catch a wight, so he can convince Daenerys and Cersei of their existence.
Beyond the Wall, Jon and his ranging party are ambushed by the undead army led by the Night King, but most of them are rescued by Daenerys.
Littlefinger is tried and ultimately executed for his crimes against the Starks.
Jon arrives with Daenerys and her army at Winterfell.
The combined Stark and Targaryen forces fight against the undead and eventually win.
The last of the Starks.
Sansa and Bran remain at Winterfell, while Jon leads the remaining Stark and Arryn troops and Dothraki to meet with Daenerys at King's Landing.
Jon leads the Stark forces during the Battle of King's Landing, which results in the destruction of the city.
Jon relunctantly kills Daenerys. The Starksparticipate in the Great Council of 305 AC. Bran is then elected king and allows Sansa to declare the North independent.
Jon Snow bids farewell to his Stark family.
Jon goes into exile. Sansa is named Queen in the North, and Arya sails for her voyage to the west of Westeros.
The status of the surviving Starks and what political positions they held was not fully clear after Jon Snow was hailed as the new King in the North, by not only the lords of the North, but the Vale as well. The return of Bran and Arya to Winterfell clarified the ambiguity of all of their political positions in the North.
While Jon ruled as the King in the North, Sansa attended court alongside him as the Lady of Winterfell. In his absence, Jon gave Sansa regency over the Kingdom of the North as both his sister and the only Stark (the highest ranking and ruling family in the North) in Winterfell used as precedent.
When Bran Stark, the rightful Lord of Winterfell, returned to Winterfell, he abdicated his lordship for his new role as the Three-Eyed Raven. Once Arya returned to Winterfell, Sansa and Petyr note Arya is next in the line of succession for the lordship of Winterfell. Jon Snow is believed to be Eddard Stark's bastard son, which means would not be included in the line of succession, unless he were to be legitimized as a Stark
However, Jon pledged himself to Daenerys Targaryen, in order to gain her full support in the Great War, stepping down as king and accepted the title and role of Warden of the North. Presently, the North and Vale are reintegrated into the Seven Kingdoms. As of the end of Season 7, the current positions of the surviving members of House Stark are as follows: Jon is Warden of the North, Sansa is Lady of Winterfell, Arya is Sansa's heir, and Bran abdicated his claim to any formal political position.
Jon Snow is actually the son of Eddard's younger sister, Lyanna Stark, and according to the normal line of succession, would rank behind both Sansa and Arya. At the same time, as the trueborn son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark, Jon is currently the heir to the Iron Throne. Samwell Tarly, with the help of Gilly, confirmed through High Septon Maynard's personal diary that Rhaegar had his marriage to Elia Martell annulled and then was remarried to Lyanna.
At the Great Council of 305 AC, Bran was chosen as the new Lord of the Six Kingdoms, with the king being elected by the lords of Westeros rather than inheriting the crown through a royal bloodline. The North has been granted independence with Sansa Stark being declared the Queen in the North as a hereditary monarch.
The sigil of House Stark on a tapestry in Winterfell.
The Lords of the North
The Riverlords
The Vale of Arryn
Robb Stark in Northern cavalry armor.
During Robert's Rebellion, the Greyjoy Rebellion and the War of the Five Kings, House Stark is able to field thousands of men and has proven itself capable in times of conflict, fighting and prevailing with many engagements within each conflict. Out of 18,000 Northerners that Robb Stark marched south to confront the Lannisters, a large amount of them were Stark soldiers. However, the Red Wedding greatly weakened the once formidable great house, leading to the destruction of the Stark army. Despite this, House Stark managed to retake Winterfell from House Bolton, hence the Stark army was restored.
A Stark man-at-arms.
The average Stark soldier wears a brown or dark blue coat with green or grey sleeves, with chainmail worn under it and a suit of studded leather armor worn over it; he also wears a pair of grey or brown leather boots. The soldiers are often equipped with helmets and round shields of steel or iron, both grey in color and the shields emblazoned with the Stark direwolf. Warriors in the Northern heavy cavalry or heavy infantry wear relatively cheap brigandine armor, with many choosing to wear mail underneath as well, rather than the expensive plate armor of the well-equipped Lannister troops.
After the end of the War of Five Kings, House Stark takes part in the Battle of Winterfell, during the Great War, where the House's forces suffer heavy casualties. The remaining Stark forces later partake in the Battle of King's Landing alongside the Vale and Targaryen troops, apparently not taking significant losses.
A view on the areas Beyond the Wall from "Winter Is Coming", an area the Starks must deal with every generation.
The House Stark banner, a direwolf on a white background, is a reference to their northern origin and lifestyle. Throughout the history of Westeros, the Starks have always had a fear of the impending threat of the White Walkers. This manner of life has bred extraordinary stoicism and loyalty within the Starks, one of their chief characteristics. Their surname, "Stark", one reminiscent of the First Men, is an accurate description of where they come from: the barren land of the North. However, white can also be seen as an isolated color, a point made perfectly clear throughout the series.
Eddard Stark about to be executed on the orders of Joffrey Baratheon in "Baelor."
The House Stark motto, Winter Is Coming, is different to all the other mottos of Westeros. In A Game of Thrones, Catelyn muses "...they [other noble houses] boasted of honor and glory, promised loyalty and truth, swore faith and courage. All but the Starks. Winter is Coming, said the Stark words."
It is significant that the Starks do not use their motto to remind of their positive attributes, but rather to remind people to look up at the more impending doom, and a bigger fight up ahead. Their determination to face the odds shows that they are made of different stuff then the Southerners, and are not into their political games of intrigue. Perhaps these are the differences that make the Starks so persecuted, with only three actual Starks (Sansa, Arya, and Bran, or four counting Jon, who is at least half-Stark) alive by the end of the show, as opposed to the six at the beginning of the show (counting Catelyn and Jon). Their differences are even seen in the way they talk, such as when Ned infuriates Robert by calling him: "too fat for his armor" when Lancel Lannister was not able to put it on properly.
The sigil of House Stark, a direwolf, is also symbolic. For starters, the direwolf mother who gave birth to the cubs featured in the series is found with a deer antler sticking out of the mother's side, representing the fact that Ned's downfall was brought on by him accepting the position of Hand of the King. The names of the cubs are also symbolic. Like direwolves, the Starks are loyal and protective, and, like the direwolves, almost go extinct. Sansa names her direwolf Lady, representing her dreams of being Queen Consort to Joffrey, whom she describes as handsome. However, Lady is eventually killed for another wolf's crimes (see below), representing how Sansa's youthfulness died after Joffrey tortured her for most of Season 2 in King's Landing, until he married Margaery Tyrell. Arya names her direwolf Nymeria, after a warrior princess from the Age of A Hundred Kingdoms, a fitting depiction of Arya's warrior spirit. When Nymeria attacks Joffrey, Arya sends her away to avoid her being "executed", and Lady is thus punished for the crime (see above). This is foreshadowing of the way Arya flees King's Landing at the end of Season 1 to the Wall. The losing of the wolf also symbolises that Arya is uncertain of what her future holds. Robb's direwolf, Grey Wind, is absolutely inseparable from him. During the Red Wedding, the Freys lock Grey Wind in a cage and kill him, just as they do with Robb. Bran's direwolf is not yet named when he enters a coma, a result of Jaime pushing him out of a tower. After awaking, however, he names him Summer. Summer dies when White Walkers burst into the Weirwood tree, and his death symbolises Winter truly arriving. Bran is also known as "The Sweet Summer Child", for he has never known Winter and its hardships. Rickon's direwolf, Shaggydog, because Rickon never received a proper education or grooming lessons, and was instead raised by a wildling, Osha. When they seek refuge with House Umber, the Umbers betray them and kill Shaggydog. Likewise, the Umbers are allied with Ramsay Bolton, who is eventually Rickon's killer at the Battle of the Bastards. Jon's direwolf, Ghost, is albino and the runt of the litter, representing a bastard's disadvantage in front of his half-sibilings. The word "ghost" makes us think of the part of a person that lives on, and when Jon is resurrected by Melisandre in Season 6, Ghost is the first being to see him alive. Ghost is white, and Jon Snow is also sometimes called the White Wolf, such as by Wyman Manderly in "The Winds of Winter."
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, House Stark was founded by Brandon the Builder, a semi-mythical figure who is credited with building the Wall and Winterfell, founding the Night's Watch and ensuring the survival of the people of Westeros after the mythical Long Night and the War for the Dawn against the enigmatic Others (called "White Walkers" in the TV series). The family has survived for over 8,000 years and was the independent royal house of the vast territories of the North until King Aegon the Conqueror overran the southern half of the continent. By the time the King in the North, Torrhen Stark, had gathered together his widely scattered bannermen, Aegon had already conquered most of the South. Particularly, Aegon had already used his dragons to inflict a crushing defeat on both the Westerlands and the Reach at the Field of Fire. Torrhen Stark finally advanced south to the Riverlands with the amassed armies of the North to a confrontation with Aegon. However, upon seeing Aegon's vast numerical superiority and his dragons, Torrhen Stark realized he had no hope of victory, and chose to bend the knee in submission.
The civil war known as Robert's Rebellion began when Lyanna Stark was kidnapped by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen. Lord Rickard Stark and his son and heir Brandon both demanded her return from King Aerys II Targaryen and were executed by the Mad King for their presumption. Eddard Stark, now the head of the family, called the banners of the North to war, supported by House Baratheon, House Tully and House Arryn. It was decided that Robert Baratheon would claim the throne due to his strong claim as the grand-nephew of a previous Targaryen king. During the civil war Stark troops were instrumental in several engagements, including the Battle of the Bells and the Battle of the Trident, and it was Eddard Stark's forces which reached King's Landing just after the Lannisters had sacked it, ensuring the city was turned over to Robert's army when it arrived. The Starks also proved instrumental in the later Greyjoy Rebellion, lending troops used by Robert to storm the castle of Pyke and crush the uprising.
In the novels, four of Lord Eddard Stark's six children inherit the Tully look from their mother Catelyn, possessing the auburn hair and blue eyes distinctive of House Tully. However, Arya inherits the Stark look of dark hair, grey eyes, and a long face alongside her half-brother Jon who, as Eddard's illegitimate son with an unidentified woman, does not possess Tully blood. While this has resulted in Arya being mockingly called "Horseface", Ned assures her that she bears a striking resemblance to his beautiful deceased sister Lyanna when Lyanna was a girl. Jon's own inheritance of the traditional Stark look and resemblance to Ned is a plot point illustrating he is of Stark blood and used by characters in-universe to identify Jon as a son of Eddard Stark. As a little girl, Arya once feared that she might be a bastard child because she and Jon are the only two among the Stark children to inherit the Stark look, but Jon assured her that she is a trueborn daughter.
In the novels, the Stark banner is a whole direwolf. In the TV series, the Stark banner most often used is just a direwolf's head, though the alternate version showing the whole direwolf is also seen (i.e. on banners during the Tourney of the Hand, tapestries at Winterfell, and Ned Stark's wax seal on the letter he sends to Stannis Baratheon). Further, the sigil in the books is just a grey direwolf on a white field. This is used in the TV series, but it also frequently uses a subtle variant which has the grey direwolf on a white field, surmounting a small green escutcheon at the bottom.
Many houses sworn to House Stark in the books did not appear in the series.
Lesser Houses
Mountain Clans
Skagos Clans
George R.R. Martin has said that the War of the Five Kings is inspired by the real-life Wars of the Roses in England (1455-1485). As such, House Stark is based on the House of York with specific members having some similarities with them such as Sansa Stark for Elizabeth of York and Robb Stark for King Edward IV.
Crownlands (all former):House BlountHouse BruneHouse ChelstedHouse GauntHouse RosbyHouse RykkerHouse StauntonHouse StokeworthHouse Thorne
Others (all former):House FreyHouse Tarly
House Lannister of Casterly Rock is one of the Great Houses of Westeros, one of its richest and most powerful families and one of its oldest dynasties. It was briefly the royal house of the Seven Kingdoms until their defeat in Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros.
The Lannisters rule over the Westerlands. Their seat is Casterly Rock, a massive rocky promontory overlooking the Sunset Sea which has had habitations and fortifications built into it over the millennia. They are the Lords Paramount of the Westerlands and Wardens of the West. As the new royal House, they also ruled directly over the Crownlands from their seat of the Red Keep in King's Landing, the traditional seat of the royal family. House Lannister's Heraldry consists of a golden lion on a crimson background, and their house words are "Hear me roar!", which are rarely mentioned. Their unofficial motto, which is as well known as the official one, is "A Lannister always pays his debts" - which is used much more often and mostly in negative context, though it can also be used in the original, literal sense.
The incestuous relationship of Cersei and Jaime had been concealed in a conspiracy. Their son Joffrey Baratheon had claimed the Iron Throne on the premise that he was actually fathered by the late King Robert Baratheon. Lord Tywin was a key supporter of his reign in the War of the Five Kings. The Lannisters continued to hold sway when Tommen Baratheon ascended the throne, with Kevan Lannister as Hand of the King and Protector of the Realm, but lost their hold over Tommen to the Faith of the Seven, and, after destroying the Great Sept of Baelor, Cersei took the throne. With the deaths of Cersei and Jaime at the Battle of King's Landing, Tyrion is now the head of House Lannister and given up the crown in favor of an elective monarchy. It currently swears fealty directly to the King of the Andals and the First Men, an office which is currently held by Bran Stark.
House Lannister is one of the Great Houses of Westeros. Their lands are in the far west of the continent. Their seat is Casterly Rock, a castle on a rocky promontory overlooking the Sunset Sea. It overlooks the thriving city of Lannisport and sits atop the most productive gold mine in the Westerlands. They are the wealthiest family in the realm.
The red lion of Reyne confronts the golden lion of Lannister
Fair-haired, tall and handsome, the modern Lannisters are the blood of Andal adventurers who carved out a mighty kingdom in the western hills and valleys. Through the female line, they boast of descent from Lann the Clever, the legendary trickster of the Age of Heroes who swindled Casterly Rock from House Casterly. They used to rule the Westerlands as the Kings of the Rock before swearing allegiance to House Targaryen. They have since served the Targaryens and now King Robert Baratheon as the Lords Paramount of the Westerlands and Wardens of the West. The gold of Casterly Rock and the Golden Tooth has made them the wealthiest of the Great Houses.
The banner of House Lannister of Casterly Rock, the rulers of the Westerlands.
Tywin Lannister is the current head of the family. His father Tytos Lannister presided over a period of decline for the house, to the point that their vassals House Reyne rebelled against Lord Tytos. Tywin put down the rebellion personally, extinguishing their house and re-establishing the fearsome reputation of House Lannister. His ruthlessness gave darker meaning to the common phrase "A Lannister always pays his debts" and was immortalized in the song "The Rains of Castamere."
Tywin has three children: Cersei, Jaime, and Tyrion by his wife Joanna Lannister. Cersei is Queen of Westeros since Tywin arranged for her marriage to King Robert Baratheon, in exchange for his support in Robert's Rebellion. She has a longstanding incestuous relationship with her brother Jaime. The two conspire to conceal their love and have passed their children (Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen) off as being the product of Cersei's marriage.
In King's Landing, while the Silent Sisters prepare the body of Lord Jon Arryn, the former Hand of the King, Cersei and Jaime wonder if Jon discovered their secret and told someone else. They, their children, and Tyrion arrive at Winterfell as a part of King Robert's entourage.
Following the kidnapping of Tyrion by Catelyn Stark, the Lannisters retaliate, first by a bloody encounter between Jaime and Eddard, and later by sending Gregor Clegane to raid the Riverlands.
After Robert dies, the Lannisters gather troops and begin their war against the Starks and Tullys at the Golden Tooth.
While Tyrion prepares the capital for the imminent attack of Stannis, Tywin abandons Harrenhal and marches the Lannister troops to the city. The Lannisters, reinforced by the Tyrell troops, defeat Stannis at the Battle of the Blackwater. Tywin is formally appointed Hand of the King. The Lannisters form an alliance with House Tyrell.
While Jaime and Brienne are on their way to King's Landing, Tywin conspires with Walder Frey and Roose Bolton to destroy the Starks. Sansa is wed to Tyrion. Robb and many of his followers are killed at the Red Wedding by the Lannisters' collaborators.
To seal the alliance between the Lannisters and the Tyrells, Joffrey marries Margaery Tyrell, but get killed during the wedding. Tyrion is accused of the murder and is tried.
Despite their victory over the Starks, the Lannisters are in tremendous debt to the Iron Bank of Braavos.
Tyrion demands a trial by combat; his champion, Oberyn Martell, is killed by Gregor Clegane at the trial by combat. Jaime releases Tyrion, who kills their father before escaping.
A funeral is held for Tywin at the Great Sept of Baelor. Meanwhile, at Pentos, Varys and Tyrion plan to serve Daenerys Targaryen.
Jaime and Bronn travel to Dorne to bring Myrcella back. They encounter the Sand Snakes, and arrested by Martell guards. They settle the matter with Prince Doran and depart from Dorne. Jaime tells Myrcella the truth of her parentage, and suddenly she dies, poisoned by the Sand Snakes.
Tyrion is kidnapped by Jorah Mormont, who tells Tyrion he intends to take him to "the queen." They are captured by a group of slavers, and eventually meet Daenerys, who accepts Tyrion as an advisor. After Daenerys departs from Meereen, Tyrion and more of her loyalists govern the city.
Cersei attempts to undermine House Tyrell, but her plan backfires and she is apprehended by the Faith.  Kevan takes overthe city as Hand of the King and Protector of the Realm. Cersei reluctantly performs the humiliating walk of atonement.
Following Cersei's downfall, Kevan Lannister serves as the Hand of the King and Protector of the Realm for young Tommen.
Following the intense standoff, Tommen reaches an agreement with the High Sparrow. Subsequently, Jaime is dismissed from the Kingsguard and travels to the Riverlands, where he resolves the Second Siege of Riverrun.
The High Sparrow is engulfed in wildfire flames as the Great Sept explodes.
The day of the trial for Loras and Cersei, the Great Sept explodes from wildfire, by a plot by Cersei and Qyburn, killing all of those inside, including the High Sparrow and the other Sparrows, the Tyrells, Kevan, and Lancel.
Cersei Lannister sits the Iron Throne.
Jaime watches as his sister is proclaimed Queen of the Andals and the First Men.
Though Cersei has succeeded in wiping out nearly all of her primary enemies, her last surviving child Tommen commits suicide. House Baratheon of King's Landing – and the main branch, House Baratheon - becomes officially extinct. With no opposition, Cersei ascends to the Iron Throne, thus elevating House Lannister as the royal family and establishing a formal Lannister dynasty – something her late father desired. Cersei is crowned Queen.
Cersei and Jaime discuss their strategy and their enemies. They negotiate with Euron Greyjoy.
In response to the threat of Daenerys, Cersei summons Lord Randyll Tarly and other noblemen from the Reach.
A vast Lannister army of 10,000 men abandons Casterly Rock at Cersei's orders, and seizes Highgarden, thus eliminating House Tyrell and its forces. However, much of the Lannister army is later annihilated in a surprise ambush by Daenerys's troops.
Jaime informs Cersei of the catastrophic casualties his army suffered. Cersei decides to hire mercenaries.
At the Dragonpit, the Lannisters gather with their enemies. Cersei seemingly agrees for a truce, but has no intention to honor her promise. She hires the Golden Company. Jaime resigns as a commander of the Lannister armies and rides to the North alone. House Lannister is effectively divided into two factions: one under Cersei and one under Jaime and Tyrion.
Euron returns with the Golden Company to King's Landing. Cersei receives Euron and Harry Strickland, the captain of the Golden Company.
Jaime arrives at Winterfell, and is allowed to say in Winterfell to uphold his promise and fight against the army of the dead, which he does.
Daenerys and her allies besiege King's Landing. Cersei refuse to surrender.
Cersei and Jaime reunite shortly before their deaths.
King's Landing is destroyed, and many of the Lannister survivors are killed. Both Cersei and Jaime are crushed by falling debris of the Red Keep.
Following Daenerys's death, Bran Stark is chosen as the new King. Tyrion, the sole survivor of Tywin, becomes Lord of Castely Rock and the Hand of the King.
A Lannister host marching in the Reach.
Due to its wealth, House Lannister is capable of fielding thousands of troops (it is not mentioned how many of the 60,000 men, which Tywin rallies from the Westerlands in "You Win or You Die", belong to House Lannister). As the richest House, the Lannisters' forces are among the best-equipped in the Seven Kingdoms.
However, the military strength of the Westerlands has been badly depleted due to the War of the Five Kings (half of it was destroyed in the Battle of the Whispering Wood alone), as well as Daenerys Targaryen's War for Westeros. Battles against the armies of the North, the Baratheons, and later Daenerys's forces, have cut their numbers down to size.
House Lannister takes Highgarden.
According to Tyrion, Casterly Rock alone, even by Season 7, still held a garrison of at least 10,000 Lannister soldiers, well trained and provisioned. However, much of this army has been later destroyed by the Targaryen forces in the Battle of the Goldroad, and its remnants have essentially been wiped out in the Battle of King's Landing.
Lannister armies seem to be more well-equipped than any other armies that Westeros could muster. This is particularly evidenced by the high quality arms and armor forged directly in the Crownlands and Westerlands, by skilled smithies and armorers. An advanced degree of standardization and role differentiation between cavalry, heavy infantry, archers and sappers is clear.
Fighting Dothraki at the Battle of the Goldroad.
Lannister soldiers are typically outfitted in excellent quality armor. Sturdy, red-dyed leather coated over augmented steel armor plates, in a striking combination. This smart design, is not only aesthetically impressive - as per Lannister lavishness - but also ergonomically practical, with the segmented armor allowing for ample mobility and flexibility for the wearer.
They also have crested steel and leather helmets, with uniquely designed cheek visors which overlap when locked shut, forming a broad facial plate with small eye slots which still give good visibility. The horizontally arrayed crests on their helmets, are a kind of defensive feature to deflect blade strikes. When the facial visors are opened, the soldier can get a better view of their surrounding vicinity, as well as talk with or to civilians more personally in their patrol duties or guard duties. The closed visors also give a deliberate resemblance to the face of a lion, looking directly forward towards it. Arguably, the design is as much for show, as for practical effectiveness.
Lannister armor and robes, also use vast quantities of scarlet red and blood red dye, across the Lannister military forces, universally. Cloaks, robes and under layers padding the armor, the best that money could buy. They are well-protected by ovate and rounded kite shields. Adorning these are intricately carved lions, and painted blazons/sigils of House Lannister; red and yellow-gold being the main color palette. The ubiquitous style of the Lannister garments and armor and the spectacular marching formations as seen at Highgarden indicates a well-organized system of military procurement, to militarily efficient standards.
The Lannisters also command a modest fleet, berthed at Lannisport. The original fleet belonging to Lord Tywin directly, was largely destroyed at anchor during the Greyjoy Rebellion in a preemptive strike, led by Euron Greyjoy.
House Lannister has also developed two models of Scorpion ballistae artillery, with the aid of Qyburn. The variant shown in Season 7, was used to injure Drogon. It is a lighter model and fired a more basic bolt as a projectile. Apparently only a single unit of this was built as a prototype, and taken into service for Jaime's field army in S7. After this unit was destroyed by Drogon, Qyburn went back to the drawing board and improved the design considerably; with the second model of Scorpion ballistae being a huge improvement on the previous design.
The improved Scorpion ballistae seen in Season 8, are bigger, heavier, more powerful and fire much more lethal bolts (apparently with design input by Euron, due to the opening, kraken-shaped bladed heads on the much larger and nastier bolts). These bolts visibly have greater penetrative power and can do terrible damage. They are used to brutal effect against both Rhaegal and a portion of Daenerys Targaryen's remaining fleet at Dragonstone.
There were dozens of these artillery units, arrayed on the battlements of King's Landing and fitted to ships of the Iron Fleet, with specially trained Lannister and Greyjoy engineer crews manning them. Though deadly even to dragons, they were slow to reload as well as difficult to turn, due to their own size. None of Cersei's or Euron's artillery scored hits on Drogon, and all were destroyed by dragon-fire in short order.
The Lannisters have held sway with the threat of their potent military since shortly after Robert's Rebellion ended. However, depleted by wars and hardships, the glory days of House Lannister's army are by now already long gone. Queen Cersei has enlisted 20,000 Golden Company mercenaries from Essos, to help augment and boost their forces back up to a healthy level. However, both the Golden Company and the remaining Lannister forces have been decisively defeated - more accurately, brutally massacred - at the Battle of King's Landing, by the combined Targaryen and Stark-Vale forces.
House Lannister is a very old and wealthy family, dating back to the Age of Heroes and the Andal invasion 6,000 years ago. As a result it has produced numerous cadet branches and distant cousins of the main line, who have prospered as members of the minor nobility in the Westerlands for many years. In contrast, while House Stark is even older than House Lannister, due to the harsh conditions of the North (both low economic output and threat of wildling attacks) by the time of the War of the Five Kings, the Starks possess few if any cousins, and only one major cadet branch, House Karstark. Therefore, there are numerous minor members of the extended "House Lannister" who exist in the background of the narrative, but they are so numerous and distantly related that members of the main line wouldn't think to mention them any more than they would their other vassals.
House Lannister of Lannisport - a cadet branch of House Lannister, formally organized as a distinct House. They directly rule the city of Lannisport for the main branch, while the main branch rules the gold-mine rich area of Casterly Rock in the nearby mountains above Lannisport.
The official Lannister motto, "Hear Me Roar", is a reference to the lion on the House's sigil, an animal that is powerful, fierce, and strong. Behind closed doors, however, they are known for their unofficial motto: "A Lannister always pays his debts". On one level, this represent the Lannister richness and their pride for it. They trade for having money (e.g Tyrion Lannister's relationship with Bronn). On a literal level, this boasts their reliability and the honorable repayment. Unfortunately, this also has a dark flip side: when wronged, a Lannister seeks revenge.
Margaery Tyrell about to wed Tommen Baratheon in a gold outfit
The Lannister colors are gold and crimson. Gold is associated with a crown, and money, something the Lannisters have aplenty, and being the best, as in with a medal, just as the Lannister see themselves as superior. It is also an eye-catching color that demands attention. Like their golden hair, gold is a color of sunny false appearances. Crimson indicates nobility and status. Both in the Roman and Elizabethan eras, crimson (and its natural derivative purple) were colors only warn by important people, such as monarchs and military leaders. Yet they are not truly royalty and gain stature by social climbing and being close to royalty: Tywin was Hand of the King, Jaime was in the Kingsguard, and Cersei married the king himself, thus enabling all her children to become kings and queens. Also, it is the color of the Sun, which through its mythological and religious heritage is associated with many positive traits.
The House sigil, a lion, is also symbolic. Throughout history, lions have always been depicted as kings of the jungle, again signifying their life of royalty.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, House Lannister was established many thousands of years prior to the books' opening by a trickster-hero called Lann the Clever, who tricked the powerful Casterly family into abandoning their stronghold of Casterly Rock, which the Lannisters took for their own. The Lannisters have ruled the region known as the Westerlands ever since, getting rich off the many gold and silver mines in the western hills and mountains.
During Robert's Rebellion, the Lannisters sat out most of the war, refusing to heed the calls of King Aerys II Targaryen to aid him in crushing the rebellion. After the rebel victory at the Battle of the Trident, the Lannister army marched to the relief of King's Landing but, instead of helping defend the city, they brutally sacked it, killing King Aerys and his grandchildren. Robert Baratheon publicly pardoned the Lannisters for their actions and accepted their allegiance, marrying Cersei Lannister in thanks for Tywin's assistance. However, Eddard Stark saw the Lannister action as betrayal and murder, and has not trusted them ever since. Due to the actions of House Lannister, as well as being responsible for the brutal murder of Rhaegar's wife Elia Martell and their two children, this earned them the ire of Dorne and its ruling house, House Martell, in which both region and house made a full withdrawal from interacting with the royal court.
House Lannister consists of a "main" branch led by Lord Tywin and a junior branch, led by cousins, that controls the city of Lannisport. The Lannisters are a relatively large family, though nowhere near as numerous as the Freys of the Crossing.
A minor change is that in the books the heraldry of House Lannister features a lion passant (striding on all four legs), but in the TV series the lion is rampant (rearing up with its forepaws raised to attack). The variant with the striding, passant lion is still glimpsed on several occasions in the TV series (i.e. Tywin's battle-flags during the Battle of the Green Fork), though it is not the primary version featured in promotional materials.
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Lannister" is pronounced "LAN-iss-ter". It rhymes with "Lancaster". The conflict between the "Starks and Lannisters" in the series is loosely inspired by the English War of the Roses between the "Yorks and Lancasters".
With unspecified familiar relationship to the main branch there is also:
Martin has said that the War of the Five Kings is based on the Wars of the Roses in England from 1455 until 1485. House Lannister is inspired by the House of Lancaster right down to having a red crest and a lion as their sigil.
House Bolton of the Dreadfort is an extinct Great House of Westeros. After the Red Wedding, they became the rulers of the North, having usurped their position from their former liege lords, House Stark. Their original lands were in the northeast of the North. Their stronghold was a castle called the Dreadfort, and the head of the house was the Lord of the Dreadfort.
House Bolton was infamous for its centuries-old practice of flaying their enemies alive, to the point that they used a flayed man as their sigil. The Boltons supposedly gave up this practice after bending the knee to House Stark, and centuries later, Lord Eddard Stark outlawed flaying in the North altogether, but the Boltons continued the practice. This led to them being despised and feared by many of the Northern houses, especially after their betrayal of House Stark.
House Bolton's heraldry consisted of a red flayed man upside-down, his flayed skin forming a white, X-shaped cross behind him, over a field of black. Their house words were "Our Blades Are Sharp," though a common saying of members of the house was "A naked man has few secrets; a flayed man, none."
House Bolton is infamous for its centuries-old practice of flaying their enemies alive, to the point that they use a flayed man as their House sigil.
The origins of House Bolton date back to at least the Age of Heroes, a savage age in which the houses of First Men waged war one upon the other. For centuries, the Red Kings of House Bolton resisted the efforts of the Stark Kings of Winter to unify the North under their rule, killing several Starks in the process, and, according to rumors, keeping their skins as trophies and even wearing them as cloaks.
King Royce IV Bolton, known as "the Redarm" because of his fondness for pulling out entrails.
During these centuries when the North was divided into a dozen or so smaller petty kingdoms, the Boltons and Starks were chief rivals for domination over all the others. House Bolton's kingdom covered a large portion of the lands east of Winterfell, centered around the Dreadfort itself.
King Rogar Bolton bends the knee to the Starks of Winterfell.
Eventually, the Boltons were defeated and bent the knee to House Stark, giving up their practice of flaying their prisoners as sign of their submission. Nevertheless, they remained the second most powerful house of the North. However, the practice of flaying was not officially outlawed until the lordship of Eddard Stark.
A Bolton knight alongside jousters from Houses Tyrell, Mallister, Corbray, Hightower, and Lefford.
A member of House Bolton travels to King's Landing to participate in the Heir's Tournament; a joust to celebrate the birth of Prince Baelon Targaryen. They dress in dark armor adorned with the flayed man of the Dreadfort, and wear a helmet with a plume of crimson feathers.
House Bolton answers the summon of Robb Stark, acting Lord of Winterfell, when he calls the bannermen of House Stark to march south to demand the liberation of Ned Stark and answer the aggression of House Lannister against the Riverlands.
House Bolton swears its allegiance to Robb when Greatjon Umber proposes Northern independence under Robb as King in the North.
The forces of House Bolton remain with the main Northern host as it invades the Westerlands. Bolton forces participate in the Battle of Oxcross.
After news of the fall of Winterfell reaches Robb's host, Roose sends word to his bastard son, Ramsay Snow, to raise a force to retake Winterfell.
The Bolton force lays siege to Winterfell. The ironborn turn on Theon and deliver him to Ramsay in exchange for safe passage out of the North. However, Ramsay and his men turn on the ironborn and flay them alive, whilst putting Winterfell to the torch.
Bolton men take Jaime Lannister and Brienne of Tarth prisoner.
The Bolton forces march along with the rest of the Northern army all the way to the castle of Harrenhal in the Riverlands, only to find it empty, except for the bodies of Northern and Riverlands prisoners put to the sword. In the meantime Lord Bolton dispatches his "best hunters" to hunt down the fugitive Jaime Lannister.
Bolton men garrisoned at Harrenhal.
The Bolton host is left to hold Harrenhal after news of the death of Hoster Tully reach the ruined castle.
The Boltons are revealed as turncoats when they assist House Frey in the massacre known as the Red Wedding. As a reward for their betrayal, Tywin appoints Roose as the new Warden of the North as well as the new Lord of Winterfell.
The Boltons launch a campaign to retake the North from the invading ironborn, but their army is stuck south of Moat Cailin, cutting them off from entering the North. Ramsay uses Theon to persuade the ironborn to surrender, then Bolton soldiers kiil them. The main Bolton army now enters the North, along with Roose Bolton, who legitimizes Ramsay as a Bolton for capturing the Moat. With their army now in the North, Roose and Ramsay March to Winterfell and begin repairs on the ruined castle.
Though the Boltons, in Roose's words, have become a Great House and are now situated at Winterfell, the [[Assassination at the Tower of the Hand|death of Tywin has left House Bolton's protection in a dire situation, since they no longer have enough men to hold the North should the bannermen of House Stark rise up against them, especially in response to Ramsay's atrocities. The Boltons also face a new threat in the form of Stannis Baratheon, who is garrisoned at the Wall and is planning to retake the North from the Boltons and rally the North to his army for another chance to take the Iron Throne. In order to strengthen their position, Roose conspires with Petyr Baelish to have Ramsay marry Sansa, unaware that Baelish is apparently plotting the Boltons' downfall in revenge for the part they played in Catelyn's death.
The Boltons defeat Stannis's host, but Sansa and Theon escape.
Despite the Boltons' victory, Sansa's escape severely jeopardizes their claim to the North. The birth of Roose's trueborn son visibly disturbs Ramsay, who knows that he no longer has the strongest claim to his father's titles and lands; he kills his father, his stepmother Walda, and his half-brother, thus becomes the Lord of the Dreadfort, Lord of Winterfell, and Warden of the North.
Ramsay forges an alliance with House Umber. The Bolton army supports the Glovers in liberating Deepwood Motte from the ironborn, successfully ending their campaign to retake the North. 
The battle between the Boltons and Starks, reinforced by their respective allies, ends with the victory of the Starks. Ramsay's death and the annihilation of his army mark the end of the Boltons' reign over the North and the extinction of House Bolton as a whole.
Soldiers of House Bolton at the Battle of the Bastards.
House Bolton commanded a formidable military prior to the outbreak of the War of the Five Kings, capable of fielding over 5,000 men. As the second most powerful house within the North, the Boltons forces are formidable, rivaled only by House Stark and House Manderly in terms of power and influence. Unlike most Northern Houses, House Bolton is considered by far to be the cruelest and most gruesome vassals within the North, thus earning them the aptly-befitting title of the “Bane of the North”. Being formidable rivals of their Stark overlords for centuries, before ultimately swearing fealty to the Kings of Winter.
Bolton soldiers seem to be well-equipped. This is particularly evidenced by the degree of standardization of weapons and armor purchased due to high taxation of the probably intimidated and extorted populace.
The Bolton soldiers are outfitted with dark-colored leather tunics with chainmail and gorgets carved with the Bolton sigil. The most distinct characteristic of the Bolton army is the conical point-shaped helmets with a distinct groove at the edges which distinguishes them from other northern soldiers. The simplicity of the armor is more on its aesthetic and symbolic measure rather than practicality or effectiveness. Being likely attributed to the Bolton’s faculty of extreme cruelty, therefore, creating a sense of intimidation in the battlefield.
The Bolton army appears to be well-trained and well-organized in battle, fighting several battles during the War of the Five Kings. Such battles include the Battle of Winterfell, where Bolton cavalry performed a perfect pincer movement around Stannis Baratheon's army and completely surrounded it. In the Battle of the Bastards, Bolton soldiers surrounded the Stark army in a shield phalanx, and began cutting down the Stark forces with spears from behind the shields. The Bolton army was also responsible for ending the ironborn occupation of the North, by recapturing the castles and lands claimed by the invaders. Ultimately, it took the intervention of House Arryn, another Great House, to bring about the Boltons' downfall.
House Bolton are said to have worn the skins of their enemies as cloaks after flaying them.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, House Bolton is noted as one of the most powerful families of the North. They are noted for flaying their enemies alive and even wearing their skins as cloaks. They have even captured and flayed Starks in the distant past. House Bolton were unruly vassals of the Starks until approximately a thousand years ago, when they finally bent the knee. Three hundred years later they rebelled but were defeated. The armies of House Stark besieged the Dreadfort for two years before finally forcing the Boltons to surrender and submit.
The Boltons are considered a sinister and ill-omened house, but Lord Roose Bolton is noted as a capable battle commander. Roose Bolton fought alongside Eddard Stark during Robert's Rebellion. After the Battle of the Trident, Roose suggested executing the defeated Barristan Selmy, but Eddard and Robert Baratheon refused.
Domeric Bolton died shortly before the beginning of the series, having sought out his bastard half-brother Ramsay (Domeric having always wanted a brother of his own). With no other trueborn heirs, Roose brought Ramsay to the Dreadfort and began to treat him as his heir.
The sigil of House Bolton in the books is a red flayed man on a field of pink with red blood drops. The TV series design has specified that the flayed man is displayed hanging upside down, his flayed skin forming an X-shaped cross. The color scheme in the TV series is slightly different: it is a red flayed man, but hanging upside-down, his flayed skin forming a white, X-shaped cross with a black background.
The various noble houses of the Seven Kingdoms use distinctive heraldry to identify families and individuals. These heraldic devices are also carried by armies on the battlefield as a sign of status, as well as allegiance to those noble houses.
Heraldic designs can vary widely. They may consist of a simple pattern of colors, but more often feature animals (either real or mythological) and/or physical objects. Specific sets of rules govern what form a heraldic design may take.
Only members of noble families have the legal right to formally display their own heraldry, though knights also gain this right after the conferring of their title: When a commoner or lowly mercenary gets knighted (even if he is only a poor hedge knight with no land and no right to sit in judgement), he legally becomes a member of "the nobility" and can invent his own personal heraldry. The followers of a noble family can also display that family's heraldry (i.e. Lannister foot-soldiers can carry banners with Lannister heraldry), but it is illegal for the smallfolk to simply invent and use their own heraldry.
The heraldry of each noble house is accompanied by a specific set of words, or "motto" that is unique to that House. These typically take the form of boasts or battle-cries, such as House Baratheon's "Ours is the fury!", or House Tully's "Family, Duty, Honor". House Stark is a major exception, as its words are not a boast but the ominous warning "Winter Is Coming". House words do not typically appear on the heraldry itself, in both the books and the TV series.
In the real-life Middle Ages, a formal set of rules governed heraldry designs:
The colors used in heraldry are formally known as "tinctures", and these are divided into three basic categories: "colors", "metals", and "furs".
The most important rule of heraldry is the rule of tincture:
By this ruling, a design cannot be half red and half blue, or half gold and half silver. For example, the sigil of House Lannister is a gold lion (metal) on a red field (color). It would not be permitted to have a gold lion on a silver background, because silver is also a metal. Ostensibly, this is because heraldry is supposed to help identify different armies on the battlefield, and should be easily distinguishable at a glance.
There is a major loophole to the rule of tincture, however: An object may be depicted as "proper" - using the color it possesses in nature - regardless of what other tinctures it is touching. This explicitly allows the animal or object featured in a heraldic design to break the rule of tincture. For example, the sigil of House Stark is a grey direwolf on a white field, which would normally break the "no metal against metal" rule (since both white and grey are considered Silver). However, because direwolves are actually grey in nature, this is simply being displayed "proper". In contrast, it would still break the rule of tincture to put a purple direwolf on a blue background, because direwolves are never purple in nature, and a purple direwolf cannot plausibly be said to be displayed "proper".
A problem presented in both the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and the Game of Thrones TV series is that a specific terminology is officially used in heraldry - describing the different tinctures as well as design motifs - and this terminology only exists in the French language. The official names for the various tinctures are: Gules (Red), Vert (Green), Azure (Blue), Purpure (Purple), Sable (Black), Or (Gold), and Argent (Silver). Since French does not exist within this fictional world, it's not particularly logical to use this real-life formal terminology. For example, no one within the narrative would ever say to Tywin Lannister that the sigil of his House is "gules, a lion or".
Different versions of heraldic designs may be fitted into the available spaces on various objects, such as flags or armor. However, since these designs were originally painted onto shields, the official shape of an overall piece of heraldry is usually the shape of a shield, known as an escutcheon. This is the practice throughout most of the Seven Kingdoms, with the major exception of Dorne: Military tactics in the deserts of Dorne favor quick hit-and-run attacks, as opposed to columns of slow and bulky armored knights, who would soon suffer from lack of available water. Thus instead of using the full shields of heavy knights, the Dornish favor lightly armored and mobile riders who fight with small rounded shields. This is reflected in the heraldry of Houses from Dorne, which are officially in the shape of a perfect circle, not an escutcheon.
The personal coat of arms of Brynden Tully.
Younger sons of noble houses may prefer to use their own personal sigils, which are often a slight variation of the official sigil of their House. Sometimes even the oldest son and heir, or even the current lord, may have his own personal sigil - this is simply a matter of preference.
For example, while the official heraldry of House Tully is a silver fish on a red and blue field, Brynden "The Blackfish" Tully uses a variant for his personal sigil, which contains a black fish (in reference to his nickname).
Euron Greyjoy's personal heraldry in the TV series has two variations; one is the standard Greyjoy heraldry of a gold kraken on a black field, but with a single red eye inscribed onto the head of the kraken. The other - featured on the trappings of his horse as he rides through the streets of King's Landing - is a silver kraken with a red eye on a black field (this is a simplification of Euron's more complex personal sigil in the books).
Acknowledged bastard children of a noble are not legally permitted to officially carry the heraldry of their noble parent's House. On the battlefield, they may carry a flag displaying the heraldry, or use weapons and equipment that display the heraldic symbol - but only as much as any common footsoldier in their noble parent's army may do so. If an acknowledged noble-born bastard began openly displaying the heraldry of their noble parent's House, specifically as a representation of themselves, they would face legal troubles and punishment.
House Targaryen's sigil is a red dragon on a black field.
House Blackfyre, founded by a bastard son of House Targaryen, follows the custom for bastards by inverting the Targaryen colors, resulting in a black dragon on a red field.
Before he joined the Night's Watch and forsook all family ties, Jon Snow was forbidden from officially "carrying" and displaying the Stark heraldry of a grey direwolf on a white field. One of House Stark's bannermen such as Ser Rodrik Cassel might physically hold a flag displaying the Stark heraldry, and even a common Stark footman might carry such a flag, so Jon may have carried weapons or equipment featuring the Stark direwolf. However, he was not allowed to use the Stark heraldry as a representation of himself, because this would essentially be making the false claim that he was a legitimized child who no longer bore the shame of bastardy.
Noble-born bastards are in a legal state between highborn nobles and smallfolk, yet unlike the smallfolk, acknowledged bastards are allowed to display their own heraldry - just not the heraldry of their noble parent's House. A very common practice in Westeros is for bastards to use the heraldry of their noble parent's House but with the colors inverted (which is known as "breaking" the design scheme). Neither the books nor TV series ever portrayed Jon Snow using any kind of heraldry before he joined the Night's Watch, but had he followed this custom, his personal sigil would have been a white direwolf on a grey field, the reverse of the Stark colors. Thus the discovery of the six direwolf pups by Eddard Stark and his sons is all the more considered a sign from the Old Gods: not only were there two female and four male pups (to match the Stark children), but the sixth was an albino - physically resembling the white direwolf design that Jon would use in his personal heraldry. This is further signified when Lord Wyman Manderly dubs Jon "the White Wolf" during his election as the new King in the North. While he may not be aware of this custom, Robert Baratheon's bastard son Gendry inadvertently adopted it when he fashioned himself a warhammer; not only was this his father's weapon of choice, but the striking head of the weapon was made of black metal and adorned with a stag's head rendered in gold (the reversed colors of the Baratheon sigil).
One of the more infamous examples of bastard heraldry is House Blackfyre, a cadet branch of House Targaryen. Founded by Daemon I Blackfyre (a bastard son of King Aegon IV) over a century before the War of the Five Kings, the name comes from the Valyrian steel sword originally owned by Aegon the Conqueror. When he was legitimized, Daemon following the custom for bastards by inverting the color scheme of the Targaryen heraldry; instead of the normal red three-headed dragon on a black background, House Blackfyre's heraldry consisted of a black three-headed dragon on a red background.
The Night's Watch "uniform" is solid black: signifying the absence of heraldry.
The Night's Watch has no heraldic symbol, emphasizing its sworn duty not to get involved in petty political squabbles, but to defend the realms of men as a whole. The Watch's banners and shields are solid black, symbolizing the erasure of any House-based allegiance. Even the "uniform" of the Night's Watch consists of solid black clothing, hence the phrase "taking the black" as a euphemism for joining the order. Members from wealthier families often buy all-black clothing before leaving for the Wall, while poorer conscripts simply have their clothing dyed black when they reach the Wall (clothing which isn't always well-suited for cold weather).
Those who take the Watch's vows reject all heraldry.
Solid black specifically denotes the rejection of heraldry, and is not a "symbol" in and of itself, but the absence of a symbol. Even the seals on messages sent by the Night's Watch are simply made in black wax with no symbol on them. The wildlings have taken to calling members of the Night's Watch "crows", because like crows they are covered in black, but this is just a nickname - though it has also caught on south of the Wall; traveling Night's Watch recruiters such as Yoren are often called "wandering crows".
The Kingsguard are famous for their white cloaks and armor. In this Season 1 photo, Jaime wears the symbol of the Kingsguard on his breastplate.
Members of the Kingsguard are noted for their white cloaks and gold armor with white enameled decoration. In the novels, when individual members of the Kingsguard participate in private events such as tournaments, they bear only solid white heraldry on their shields and banners. Indeed, only members of the Kingsguard legally have the right to carry shields and banners emblazoned with all-white heraldry. Somewhat like the Night's Watch, they formally renounce their familial and political allegiances when they join the order. Unlike the Night's Watch, however, the all-white banners of the Kingsguard are technically not considered to be a rejection or absence of heraldry, the way black is.
The Kingsguard as an institution, however, does have a symbol, a triple-pointed crown made of swords, representing the crown of the King of the Andals and the First Men. This design is engraved on their armor, and appears on their banners when leading the king's armies in war, acting officially in their capacity as Kingsguard.
Jaime in Season 4, wearing the new variant of the Kingsguard symbol on his breastplate, a crown made of three swords.
The TV series modified the "Kingsguard institutional symbol" from the novels, and that modification has changed form over the course of the series: when it debuted in Season 1, it appeared as a triple-pointed crown with no swords. This continued until Season 4, when without explanation all of the Kingsguard shifted to using a new symbol of a triple-pointed crown shape formed by three interlocking swords symbols. The symbol did not change in-universe, this was simply a retcon: even carvings in the White Sword Tower and The Book of Brothers (a decades-old book) appear in Season 4 with the new symbol. The TV series has also not directly established that the Kingsguard are the only group allowed to display all-white heraldry at tournaments.
Heraldry is closely associated with knighthood, which was introduced to Westeros by the Andals six thousand years ago. Northern warriors are not as flashy as southern knights, fighting over frivolous love feuds, but have to be dour and grim to survive the harsh winters which affect the North. Some of the heraldry from southern Westeros can be very ornate, which the Northerners see as frivolous. As a result, George R.R. Martin intentionally made heraldry in the North not as complex as heraldry from the south of Westeros.
The Vale of Arryn was the first place in Westeros that saw the arrival of the Andals six thousand years ago, and knighthood has been a key force in the region ever since. Many noble houses of the Vale prize their pure Andal bloodlines, and the Knights of the Vale are famed fighters throughout the Seven Kingdoms.
Three centuries before the War of the Five Kings, Aegon I Targaryen and his two sisters rode their dragons to conquer and unite the Seven Kingdoms. They then established a new heraldry design for the Targaryen royal line: a three-headed red dragon on a black field. The three heads represent Aegon I and his two sisters.
After Robert Baratheon became king, he continued to use the heraldry of House Baratheon of Storm's End, a black stag on a gold field, but with a crowned stag to signify the new royal status of his House. In Season 2, Joffrey's "House Baratheon of King's Landing" starts using a new heraldry design, with a Baratheon stag and a Lannister lion facing each other. The books more clearly explain that this is what Joffrey used as his personal heraldry, even before Robert died. When Joffrey comes to Winterfell at the beginning of the first novel, Jon Snow remarks on how arrogant it is that Joffrey gives equal standing to his mother's House in his personal sigil. By the second novel, corresponding to Season 2, Joffrey just used his personal sigil so prolifically at court that it became established as the new heraldry for his cadet branch of House Baratheon.
Stannis, as a second son, formally established the cadet branch "House Baratheon of Dragonstone", using as its heraldry his own personal sigil, the black stag of Baratheon surrounded by the fiery red heart of the Lord of Light. After Renly died, with Cersei's children really bastards of incest, Stannis's branch became the de facto main branch of "House Baratheon" (not that the Lannisters will admit it). As a result, in the books, at the Battle of Castle Black Jon Snow notices Stannis's soldiers carrying both Stannis's fiery-heart sigil, as well as the original black stag on a gold field version of the Baratheon heraldry (perhaps to emphasize that Stannis's branch is the "real" House Baratheon at this point).
Euron Greyjoy has his own personal sigil in the books, and Season 7 of the TV series introduced a simplified version. In the books, it is a red eye (with a black pupil), which is surmounted by a black crown being held aloft by two black crows (the background color isn't described). This is wordplay on his nickname, "Crow's Eye". Season 7 of the TV series also introduced a personal sigil for Euron, but because he isn't missing an eye in the TV version and is never called Crow's Eye, the crow element was removed, and just combined with the regular Greyjoy heraldry: as a result, Euron's personal sigil in the TV version is a gold kraken on a black field, with a third red eye inscribed onto the head of the kraken.
Before the Targaryen Conquest, the independent Kingdom of the Stormlands was ruled by House Durrandon, but during the conquest the last of the Storm Kings, Argilac Durrandon, was killed in battle by the Targaryen general Orys Baratheon (rumored to be a bastard half-brother of Aegon the Conqueror himself). Aegon gave Orys rule over the Stormlands, which he secured by taking Argilac's castle-seat at Storm's End and his daughter (and only child) as his wife. Thus while House Durrandon officially became extinct, its bloodline continued in House Baratheon. Orys also took the old Durrandon heraldry as his own, so House Durrandon's heraldry was the same as the later heraldry used by House Baratheon.
A widespread fan assumption for some time was that because the Baratheons were not kings like the Durrandons had been, they stopped using a crown on their stag sigil, and just used a plain stag for the next three centuries - and only recently re-added a crown to the stag, after Robert's Rebellion when Robert Baratheon overthrew the Targaryen kings. However, when the Baratheons make appearances during the Tales of Dunk and Egg prequel novellas (particularly Lyonel Baratheon), they are consistently described as used a crowned stag, even though the Targaryens are still the royal family and they are not. Asked about this in 2015, Elio Garcia (owner of Westeros.org) stated that according to materials that George R.R. Martin sent him when co-writing the World of Ice and Fire sourcebook, the Baratheons indeed always used a crowned stag sigil, starting from when Orys founded House Baratheon and exactly copied the Durrandon heraldry, through Robert's Rebellion.
The TV series, however, contradicted this in Season 1's "The Wolf and the Lion": when Bran Stark is being quizzed by Maester Luwin on the heraldry of the Great Houses, he explicitly says that the Baratheon stag only has a crown now, after Robert Baratheon became king. It isn't clear if this was a deliberate change for the TV continuity, or more probably, if the TV scriptwriters also made the common mistake of assuming the Baratheons didn't use a crowned stag before Robert seized the Iron Throne. The practical result of all of this is what exactly Baratheon heraldry should look like in any potential live-action adaptation of the Tales of Dunk & Egg prequels, with or without a crown.
Other regions of the known world might not have the same rules and standards of heraldry as are used in the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. Even so, many groups in Essos use various heraldic designs to distinguish themselves. Sometimes these may be political entities, but it is most common in Essos to see heraldry used by independent mercenary companies, using distinct symbols on their banners in order to serve the original purpose of heraldry: so soldiers and captains can distinguish the movement of different forces on the battlefield.
The old Ghiscari Empire used harpies as its symbol, until it was defeated by the Valyrian Freehold five thousand years ago. After the Doom of Valyria four hundred years before the War of the Five Kings, local city-states and former colonies of the region reasserted their independence, and became known as Slaver's Bay. The three major city-states of Slaver's Bay - Astapor, Yunkai, and Meereen - like to think of themselves as continuations of the former glories of Old Ghis, so they also use harpies as their symbols, though each uses a slight variant. The Astapori harpy holds a chain with open manacles, the Yunkish harpy holds a whip and an iron collar, while the Meereenese harpy holds nothing.
So far (in both the books and TV series) no specific heraldry has been mentioned for any of the nine Free Cities (though Braavos mints its currency with a symbol of the Titan of Braavos , a famous landmark from the city). Individual noble families or wealthy ruling merchant families from the Free Cities do sometimes use their own heraldic devices but even in the books they have not been prominently mentioned. If anything, at one point in the books Illyrio Mopatis of Pentos remarks that he thinks the Westerosi take their heraldry much too seriously (i.e. Tywin Lannister's constant speeches about how "the lion does not concern himself with the opinions of sheep!") - so apparently, heraldry is simply not as important or developed in the Free Cities as it is in Westeros.
The Dothraki are an illiterate society but also do not use any particular banners or symbols. Dothraki khalasars do sometimes differentiate themselves by decorating their bodies and their horses with different colors of paint. For example, Khal Drogo's khalasar used blue paint. Blue is one of the most expensive dye colors available to the Dothraki, and thus its use it associated with great wealth and power (similar to how purple is the most expensive color dye in Westeros, and thus became associated with royalty). In contrast, Khal Jhaqo's new khalasar, formed after Drogo's death, uses red paint to decorate themselves and their horses. Jhaqo may have initiated this switch to distance his new rule from Drogo's, and cheaper red paint was all they had available at the time. However, individual khalasars have no names, nor particularly long-lasting or deep histories and affiliations, because they frequently dissolve on the death of their khal, or get conquered and absorbed by other khalasars. As a result, the paint-schemes used by individual khalasars do not usually last from one generation to the next.
As for the lands beyond the Wall in Westeros, Ygritte specifically says that the Free Folk do not use heraldry, or wave banners around which make their forces easy to spot on a conventional battlefield. Instead, they prefer attack by ambush.
Jim Stanes in his workshop. Note the heraldry chart in the background.
Stanes's early heraldry concept art. Note that some, such as the Umber and Royce sigils, do not match their final, on-screen versions.
While the heraldry designs used by each noble house were established by author George R.R. Martin in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, graphic artist Jim Stanes was tasked with taking Martin's textual descriptions and adapting them into the visual format of the TV series. Stanes achieved this after laborious effort, and comparisons with literally hundreds of examples from real-life medieval heraldry.
Stanes described the process of physically making the heraldic banners:
He went on to explain that the sigils that appear on shields or armor are directly painted on, or applied by the production team. A few of the major Houses get their own molded shields, i.e. the Stark direwolf which appears on their shields is not simply painted on but a more detailed molding. Some of the major Houses also get their own custom armor which features their sigils as part of the design, i.e. the Lannister lions worked into Tywin Lannister's armor.
Stanes explained that the heraldry for the Great Houses were the first ones to be fully developed for Season 1, as well as for a few of the other major Houses which appear prominently in Season 1 (i.e. House Umber).
Concept art of the Lannister lion sigil.
Concept art of the Stark direwolf sigil.
Stanes described the process of creating the heraldry for some of the Great Houses:
The heraldry designs of certain noble houses are depicted differently between the books and TV series.
In the TV series, many of the sigils used by the Great Houses have alternate versions, some showing the full body of the animal they represent, others just the head, i.e. a direwolf head for the Starks, a lion's head for the Lannisters, a stag's head for the Baratheons. The books clarify that the full-bodied running grey direwolf is the official heraldry design of House Stark: the variant using just a direwolf's head is Robb Stark's personal sigil. The TV series just uses various alternate designs, each of them considered "official" for their noble house.
Sometimes these are slight variations on the field, often adding a base on the bottom of large banners, though these additions are not seen in all versions. For example, House Stark's heraldry in the books only consists of a grey direwolf on a snow white field. In the TV series, large banners sometimes depict this surmounting a green base, introducing a new color that wasn't in the original heraldry. Some of the original House Baratheon banners (i.e. at the tournament in Season 1) use a black base on the bottom of large banners, but this is simply a re-use of colors already in the heraldry (from the black stag).
On a few occasions the heraldry of a noble house has been drastically altered in the TV series, possibly to make it more easily visible. The greatest example are the changes made to the heraldry of House Frey. In the books, House Frey's heraldry consists of the two towers and bridge of the Twins colored blue, on a silver-grey background. The TV series made the towers white, and over the same grey field, but now above a blue base which is drawn to resemble the waves of the Green Fork of the Trident River. The color change may be because after the blue river was added as a base at the bottom, it would have been visually confusing to have the castle be the same color as the water. Unfortunately, reversing the colors like this makes it vaguely resemble the reversed colors used in heraldry by bastard children (though in such cases, without the base, the entire background field is blue, not just the base).
The heraldry of House Tully, which is fairly important as it is one of the Great Houses, was significantly re-arranged in the adaptation. In the TV series, it is striped horizontally, with two wavy white lines separating a red top section (which contains a white fish) and a blue bottom section (the small space between the two white stripes is also blue). In the books, the stripes run vertically, and there are no white stripes. Rather, the heraldry starts as blue, but then two wavy muddy-red vertical stripes run through the blue, making for a total of five stripes - each of equal width - alternating blue/red/blue/red/blue. The white fish is set in the middle of this, and crosses through multiple stripes. Because the TV series just has two large red and blue sections, instead of five stripes of equal width, the fish in the TV series is entirely contained within the top red section.
House Arryn, also a Great House, also had its heraldry significantly changed. In the books, House Arryn's heraldry is a sky-blue falcon soaring against a white moon, on sky-blue. The TV series version, however, has a white falcon next to a white crescent moon, on a blue field.
In the books, the sigil of House Umber is a roaring giant in chains, but the TV series changed this to simply four linked chains connected by a central ring. It is possible there were concerns that the TV audience might not understand it was meant to be a giant and not just an odd-looking man. Earlier concept art by Jim Stanes (seen in production blogs) reveals that the TV version of the Umber sigil went through several versions, and an earlier version did contain a giant's arm (with its body out of frame) grasping the chains.
The heraldry of House Mallister in the books is a silver eagle on a purple field, but in the TV series the field is blue.
House Redwyne's heraldry in the books is a burgundy grape cluster on a blue field, but the TV series changed this to a burgundy grape cluster on a white field, probably because burgundy on blue is more difficult to readily distinguish.
The heraldry of House Florent is inconsistently described in the books, but apparently consists of a red-gold fox's head, encircled by lapis lazuli flowers, all of which is on an ermine background. The TV version simply omits the lapis lazuli flowers (and predominantly shows a full-bodied fox).
Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish prefers to use his personal mockingbird sigil, but as he is the only living member of House Baelish, he has functionally replaced the old version (which featured the head of the Titan of Braavos) with his own. The mockingbird heraldry has not appeared prominently in heraldry on the TV series so far (though Petyr does prominently wear a mockingbird-shaped broach, it doesn't feature colors). The one time it has appeared was on a ship's sail in Season 3, in which it seemed to be a black mockingbird on a yellow field. In the books, the sigil actually consists of a field of multiple silver mockingbirds, on a green plain.
The heraldry of House Corbray in the books is three black ravens in flight, each holding a separate red heart, on a white field. In the TV series continuity (as briefly glimpsed in an animated featurette), it is apparently a single black raven instead of three.
The recorded history of Westeros extends back over 12,000 years, according to tradition, though the accuracy of the legends and myths that recount much of this history is openly questioned by the maesters of the Citadel, amongst others.
As with real-life medieval cultures, the people who inhabit the known world in which the continents of Westeros, Essos, and Sothoryos are located do not possess objective knowledge about how their world was created. This is in contrast with J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle-earth legendarium, in which characters actually did meet their gods or angelic beings and knew the full history of their world. In the fantasy world in which Westeros is set, civilization just gradually coalesced from the hunter-gatherer level, as in real-life. Many different cultures have their own theories about how the world began and how the human race came to be, usually tied to which religion they practice. Different religions offer drastically different theories on how the world was created. Even more simple "cultural traditions" and oral histories have much to say on the subject but no hard evidence. Some of these oral traditions are known to be simply inaccurate: the Dothraki believe that the first man came into being one thousand years ago, when even the written histories of other continuous civilizations stretch back five to six thousand years.
The earliest written histories date back to about 6,000 years ago, when the Andals first introduced writing to Westeros. The First Men had no writing system more advanced than runes for marking graves, thus all history before 6,000 years ago relies on oral tradition. Many of the events before 6,000 years ago in Westeros, during the Age of Heroes, are half-legendary, and some of the more fanciful tales of these times probably have little basis in reality. Still, all legends and oral histories may have some kernel of truth behind them. Written histories in Essos from the great civilizations of Valyria and Ghis also date back roughly five to six thousand years. Even so, this is about twice as long as the continuous written historical record than exist in our real-life world, our equivalent being if written history were extended unbroken back to the construction of the first ziggurat in ancient Sumeria. Oral tradition extends back twice that long.
A major issue, pointed out by author George R.R. Martin himself, is that as the saying goes, history tends to be written by the victors. Just as in real life, the inhabitants of Westeros during the time frame of the TV series do not possess an objective record of history. History tends to be more accurate the closer it is to the present, but largely in the sense that fables and half-myths tend no longer to be included. All history books display the biases of their authors to some degree. The oldest written histories in Westeros were made by the Andal invaders, and they depicted themselves in a positive light as they killed or conquered the First Men of the south. The Northerners, descended from the First Men who were never conquered by the Andals, have a decidedly negative view of the Andal invasions.
The dating system is based on the War of Conquest. Thus all dates are "BC" for "Before Conquest" or "AC" for "After Conquest".
The Children of the Forest inhabited Westeros long before humans came to the continent.
The First Men battle with the Children of the Forest
The First Men and the Children join hands in peace, after the Pact ends their centuries-long wars.
The Children of the Forest during the Dawn Age, as seen during a flashback vision in "The Door".
The Children, in desperation, turn captured humans into the first White Walkers.
The dead raised as wights.
The First Men drove back the White Walkers to the furthest north
The Wall was constructed to defend against any return of the White Walkers
The Night's King and his corpse queen enslaved the black brothers and performed human sacrifices.
King Rogar Bolton bends the knee to the Starks of Winterfell, the culmination of the Starks cementing their rule as kings over the entire North.
The Andals crossed the Narrow Sea to invade Westeros.
The ancient fortress Moat Cailin dominates the only narrow road through the swamps of the Neck - the perfect choke point to block Andal invasions of the North.
The Andals are repulsed by the Kings in the North
The ancient Ghiscari Empire at its height, one of the oldest civilizations in the world, built on the backs of countless slaves.
Old Ghis was destroyed by dragonfire, as the Valyrians conquered eastern Essos.
The dragonlords of Valyria defeated the Rhoynar city-states in the Rhoynish Wars, conquering western Essos.
Valyria at its height was a city of wonders - the capital of an empire that ruled half the known world, from Pentos to Meereen.
Massive volcanic eruptions destroyed Valyria in a single day.
Four centuries after "the Doom", Old Valyria is still a smoking ruin.
With Valyria destroyed, its empire disintegrated in chaotic civil wars: the Century of Blood.
The Dothraki mounted hordes rampaged across Essos until halted at the Battle of Qohor.
Territories and their rulers: House Stark, the North (white); House Arryn, the Vale of Arryn (dark grey); House Tully, the Riverlands (dark blue); House Greyjoy, the Iron Islands (dark yellow); House Lannister, the Westerlands (dark red); House Tyrell, the Reach (green); House Durrandon, the Stormlands (yellow); House Martell, Dorne (orange) House Targaryen, the Crownlands (brown); Night King (formerly the Free Folk), Beyond the Wall (light blue); Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, the Gift and the Wall (black)
Princess Nymeria leads the Rhoynar refugee fleet, fleeing the Valyrians, across the Narrow Sea to Dorne.
Nymeria and her Rhoynar unite with local ruler Mors Martell to conquer and unify Dorne for the first time.
Endemic border wars between the Dornishmen, the Reach, and the Stormlands in the Dornish Marches.
House Frey's founder oversees construction of the Twins.
The Storm Kings conquered the old River Kings, and held the Riverlands for three centuries.
The Targaryens relocated to Dragonstone right before the Doom of Valyria - along with the world's only surviving dragons.
Harrenhal upon it's completion, mightiest fortress in all of Westeros, meant to secure the Ironborn's control over the Riverlands.
Aegon Targaryen and his sisters Rhaenys and Visenya, on Dragonstone
The Burning of Harrenhal by Aegon Targaryen riding his dragon Balerion.
Orys Baratheon duels Argilac Durrandon to the death in the Last Storm, conquering the Stormlands for the Targaryens.
The Field of Fire was the climactic battle of the War of Conquest, the only battle at which all three dragons were unleashed at the same time.
With the line of House Gardener extinguished, the Targaryens elevated the Gardeners' cousins House Tyrell as the new rulers of the Reach under them.
King Torrhen Stark peacefully  bends the knee to the Targaryens.
Visenya flew her dragon Vhagar over the mountains to the Eyrie, making the Arryns surrender.
Dorne, ruled by House Martell, was the only one of the Seven Kingdoms to successfully resist the Targaryens - by resorting to guerrilla warfare.
The Iron Throne, made from the swords of Aegon the Conquerer's defeated enemies.
Aegon I created the new capital city King's Landing; he also began construction on the Red Keep, but it was not completed until the reign of his second son, Maegor the Cruel.
Maegor Targaryen, who earned the name "Maegor the Cruel", warred against the Faith Militant.
The Nightfort, the first castle at the Wall, was abandoned during the reign of Jaehaerys I due to the Watch's declining numbers.
King Daeron I led the Conquest of Dorne, but would lose Dorne and his own life in a protracted Dornish insurgency.
King Baelor I Targaryen built the Great Sept of Baelor, moving the headquarters of the Faith from Oldtown to King's Landing.
Daemon I Blackfyre, the Black Dragon. Legitimized bastard son of King Aegon IV Targaryen, he tried to usurp the throne from his trueborn brother Daeron II in the First Blackfyre Rebellion.
Daemon was killed at the climactic Battle of the Redgrass Field, by a volley of arrows from his half-brother Bloodraven and his archers.
The double marriage-alliance that finally united Dorne with the Iron Throne:  King Daeron II Targaryen married Prince Maron Martell's sister Myriah Martell (left), and Prince Maron married Daeron II's sister Daenerys (right).
The trial by seven of Ser Duncan the Tall during the Tourney at Ashford.
King Maekar adopts his own sigil.
The Young Ser Barristan Selmy kills Maelys Blackfyre at the conclusion of the Fifth Blackfyre Rebellion, also known as the War of the Ninepenny Kings.
In the Reyne Rebellion, young Tywin eradicated House Reyne down to the last child, restoring Lannister dominance over the Westerlands after a generation of weak rule under his father Tytos.
Aerys Targaryen gradually spiralled into insanity.
Crown Prince Rhaegar Targaryen's abduction of Lyanna Stark.
Aerys laughs hysterically as he has Rickard and Brandon Stark executed in the throne room.
Robert and Rhaegar engage in an epic duel at the climatic Battle of the Trident, ending in Rhaegar's death and the defeat of the main Targaryen army.
During the Sack of King's Landing, the brutal Ser Gregor Clegane kills Rhaegar's two small children, then rapes and kills his wife Elia Martell.
At the height of the Sack, Jaime Lannister kills the Mad King, who  as a Kingsguard he had sworn to protect, at the very foot of the Iron Throne.
Jon Arryn ably served as Hand of the King for 17 years, ensuring stable rule and prosperity while Robert drank, ate, and whored.
After the failure of the Greyjoy Rebellion, Balon Greyjoy surrenders to Robert Baratheon. His son Theon is sent to live with Eddard Stark as a political hostage.
King Robert Baratheon makes a formal visit to Winterfell, to beseech his old friend Eddard to take the late Lord Arryn's place as Hand of the King.
On the verge of her secret being discovered, Cersei has her husband Robert mortally injured in a hunting "accident", and installs Joffrey as king.
On a whim, the psychopathic Joffrey foolishly has Ned Stark beheaded on the very steps of the Great Sept - plunging the Seven Kingdoms into the War of the Five Kings.
Daenerys Targaryen is married to Khal Drogo as a political alliance, giving the Targaryens their first chance since fleeing into exile of gaining an army to retake the Iron Throne with.
Using "fire and blood" magic, Daenerys uses Drogo's funeral pyre to hatch three live dragons, bringing the species back from extinction after a century and a half.
Robb Stark, declared King in the North by his bannermen, invades the Westerlands.
Robert's youngest brother Renly Baratheon declares himself king ahead of middle brother Stannis, and marries Margaery Tyrell to gain the support of her powerful family.
Renly is assassinated by a magical Shadow-creature sent by Stannis and Melisandre.
House Greyjoy declares its independence once again, and opportunistically attacks the North while its army is away south.
Most of Stannis's fleet assaulting King's Landing is destroyed in a huge wildfire explosion at the massive Battle of the Blackwater.
After Renly's death, House Tyrell shifts its massive support to the Lannisters, in exchange for a royal betrothal.
Robb Stark realizes that due to his various political blunders, he has functionally lost the war already.
The Stark army is massacred at the Red Wedding. Catelyn and Robb are killed in the main hall by the Freys, breaking sacred Guest right.
King Robb is stabbed through the heart by Roose Bolton, then the Freys horrifically mutilate his corpse.
Like his father Roose, Ramsay Snow betrayed the Starks by taking Winterfell under a flag of truce, then burning the castle.
Daenerys Targaryen steals and frees an army of 8,000 Unsullied with her dragons, then sacks Astapor.
With her new Unsullied army and her young dragons, Daenerys begins a campaign of liberation in Slaver's Bay.
King Joffrey marries Margaery Tyrell to secure the Lannister-Tyrell alliance, and celebrate the Lannister victory ending the war.
Joffrey ends up assassinated, poisoned at his own wedding feast - and the war enters into a new, more chaotic phase.
Littlefinger, the secret architect of the entire war, tricking the Starks and Lannisters into fighting each other to exhaust them both.
Despite their victory, the Lannisters are bankrupted by the war, leading to a crippling debt crisis with the Iron Bank of Braavos.
Oberyn Martell fights Gregor Clegane in a trial by combat, which leaves Oberyn dead and Gregor fatally poisoned.
Tywin Lannister is shot dead with a crossbow while on the privy by his own son, Tyrion, who then flees Westeros.
Daenerys Targaryen captures Meereen, but facing continued resistance from the local slave-masters, decides to stay and rule as the city's queen until she can stabilize it.
Stannis Baratheon's surviving army makes a surprise arrival at the Battle of Castle Black to save the Night's Watch and crush the wildling horde led by Mance Rayder.
With Tywin dead and Tyrion fleeing into exile, Cersei becomes the new head of House Lannister - and disastrously mishandles both the war and the debt crisis.
Cersei's younger son Tommen is crowned king, and marries Margaery Tyrell to secure their alliance.
A popular-disgust religious protest movement known as the Sparrows spreads throughout Westeros.  Cersei tries to win their support by naming the High Sparrow as the new High Septon.
Cersei grants the High Sparrow permission to revive the Faith Militant, the armed order of the Faith of the Seven.
The Faith Militant turns against Cersei, arrests her, and forces her to perform a humiliating walk of atonement.
Jon Snow is elected the new Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, and cements his position by personally executing Janos Slynt for treason.
The White Walkers slaughter thousands of wildlings in the Massacre at Hardhome, and the Night King revives them as wights in their army of the undead.
An insurgency grips Meereen of former slave-masters calling themselves the Sons of the Harpy, who refuse to accept Daenerys's rule.
An attack by the Sons of the Harpy at the Great Pit of Daznak forces Daenerys to flee the city on Drogon - and the wounded dragon takes her back to the Dothraki Sea.
Stannis Baratheon marches south from the Wall to fight the Boltons, leading to the Battle of Winterfell.
Jon Snow is stabbed and left for dead in the Mutiny at Castle Black.
Jon Snow is miraculously resurrected by the red priestess Melisandre at the behest of Ser Davos Seaworth.
Ramsay Bolton murders his father, Roose Bolton, seizing power in the North.
After murdering his brother Balon, Euron Greyjoy becomes the new King of the Iron Islands.
Ellaria Sand and the Sand Snakes overthrow House Martell and seize power in Dorne, seeking to go to war against the Lannisters to avenge Elia and Oberyn Martell.
The Night King and the army of the dead assault the cave of the Three-Eyed Raven, though Bran Stark and Meera Reed escape and are saved by Bran's uncle, Benjen Stark.
Bran Stark discovers a shocking secret: Jon Snow is not the bastard son of Eddard Stark, but the son of Ned's sister, Lyanna Stark, and Rhaegar Targaryen.
After completing her training with the Faceless Men in Braavos, Arya returns to Westeros and kills Walder Frey, Lothar Frey, and Walder Rivers in retaliation for the Red Wedding.
The sept of Baelor is destroyed with wildfire, killing most of the Sparrows and the Tyrells.
With King Tommen Baratheon dead, Cersei Lannister becomes Queen of the Seven Kingdoms.
The Targaryen fleet sails to Westeros at last, having defeated the slave masters, conquering the Dothraki, and forming an alliance with the Reach, the Iron Islands, and Dorne.
The Stark-Free Folk army battles Ramsay Bolton's army for control of Winterfell and the North.
After Ramsay is killed, Jon Snow is declared the King in the North by the lords of the North and the Vale, the latter of which helped defeat the Bolton army and return Stark rule to the North.
Arya Stark, on her quest for vengeance, oversees the extinguishing of the male line of House Frey in retaliation for the Red Wedding before returning to Winterfell.
Jon and Daenerys first meet at Dragonstone, with Melisandre crediting herself as bringing ice and fire together to Varys.
Euron Greyjoy destroys a large portion of the Targaryen fleet and captures his niece Yara, solidifying his alliance with Cersei Lannister.
Her Unsullied trapped at Casterly Rock and Highgarden sacked with the Tyrells dead, Daenerys Targaryen leads the Dothraki atop Drogon against the combined Lannister and Tarly army and destroys their loot train at the Battle of the Goldroad.
Jon Snow embarks on a wight hunt with his allies to capture a wight as proof for the rest of Westeros. They are rescued by Daenerys, but the Night King kills Viserion and raises it as an ice dragon.
The Parley in King's Landing is held at the Dragonpit, where the captured wight is presented and Westeros agrees to come together for the Great War, setting aside their enmities and differences.
After learning that Cersei and Euron plan to betray their promise to help fight the undead, Jaime abandons his sister and rides north as snow falls on King's Landing.
With his crimes against the realm and its noble families uncovered, Petyr Baelish is executed by the combined efforts of Sansa, Arya, and Bran Stark.
Theon Greyjoy, forgiven by Jon Snow and overpowering Harrag, wins over Yara's remaining followers and persuades them to join him in his mission to rescue his sister from his uncle Euron.
Bran Stark, having returned to Winterfell, witnesses the marriage of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark and learns that Jon Snow, whose true name is Aegon Targaryen, is the rightful heir to the Iron Throne.
En route to White Harbor, Jon Snow and Daenerys Targaryen, unaware of their familial ties, make love. This concerns Tyrion Lannister, Daenerys's Hand.
The Wall is breached where Eastwatch stands after attacks made by the Night King, nullifying its magic and allowing for the crossing of the White Walkers and wights into the North.
Beric Dondarrion burns the undead Ned Umber following the fall of the Last Hearth.
Brienne of Tarth and Jaime Lannister fight in the Battle of Winterfell.
Daenerys Targaryen burns King's Landing in the final battle of her war.
Daenerys is assassinated by Jon Snow in the Great Hall.
Brandon Stark is elected Bran the Broken, King of the Andals and the First Men, Lord of the Six Kingdoms, and Protector of the Realm, marking the beginning of the elective monarchy of Westeros.
Jon leads the wildlings back home.
The date given on Jorah's letter of pardon from Season 1 is "298 AL", the same as in the books - which has been taken as establishing that both the TV series and first novel begin in the year 298 AC, though time moves more slowly in the TV series.
The timeline of the TV series broadly follows the timeline of the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, with several minor differences. Several younger characters - most notably Jon Snow, all of the Stark children and Daenerys Targaryen - are two to three years older than their book equivalents, which has required the date of Robert's Rebellion to be pushed back from fifteen to seventeen years before the events of the series begin. Other characters are even older (Robert Baratheon is ten years older than his book counterpart, Eddard Stark is likely similarly about ten years older) or younger (Ser Vardis Egen is decades younger than in the book, while Theon is two years younger), though for the most part this has no bearing on the timeline.
In Season 4, Barristan Selmy confronts Jorah Mormont about a letter of pardon he received from Robert Baratheon. Though this takes place in Season 4, the letter was written and sent in Season 1, and it specifies the year as 298 after Aegon's Landing, the same year as in the beginning of the book series.
Several characters in Season 1 mention that Robert's Rebellion ended 17 years ago, which would put the year it ended as roughly 281 (298 - 17) AC. The prop for the book The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms explicitly states that Robert Baratheon was crowned king in year 280 after Aegon's Landing, cementing that the end of the rebellion was in that year. That 280 is actually 18 years before 298 could be taken as a contradiction, but there are examples when the 17 year date is contradicted within the show itself as well, In Season 1 Episode 2 ("The Kingsroad"), Catelyn says that Eddard Stark rode off with Robert Baratheon "17 years ago", but Eddard rode off with Robert at the beginning of the rebellion, which is said in the same episode to have lasted about a year, which would suggest it ended in 282 AC.
One, albeit unlikely, explanation to account for the discrepancy between "17 years" and "280 after Aegon's Landing" is that 17 years could be referring to the actual end of the rebellion, the Assault on Dragonstone, which is specified to have taken place about a year after the Sack of King's Landing (after which Robert was crowned). More plausible explanations could be that Season 1 takes place early in 298 AC (not likely since Season 1 covers several months - there is significant travelling and Daenerys carries a child almost to term) or that Robert became king very late in 280 AC and the date of the anniversary simply did not pass yet in Season 1. Regardless, Game of Thrones Wiki follows the assumption that the current year is 298 AC and that Robert became king in 280 AC, as those are the only concrete dates directly given by official (prop) TV continuity material, anything else being fan-made calculations.
The major datable event from King Robert's reign in the TV continuity is that the Greyjoy Rebellion is, as in the book series, consistently stated to have occurred 9 years before the beginning of the story - it is mentioned several times in Season 1 that there hasn't been a "proper fight" in nine years. In the books, the Greyjoy Rebellion also occurred 9 years before the story begins - to necessitate just how long Theon was functionally raised in the Stark household as Ned's ward. In the book continuity, with a 15-year gap since Robert's Rebellion, the Greyjoy Rebellion occurred 6 years after Robert was crowned. In the TV series, based on the repeated comments regarding "9 years", the Greyjoy Rebellion took place in 289 (298 - 9) AC, the same year as it did in the books, but Robert becoming king in 280 AC means that it took place longer into his reign than in the books, 9 years into his reign rather than 6.
Beyond the props in Season 1, there is no concrete confirmation of the years events in the rest of the series take place. No later piece of dialogue or prop explicitly gives the current year. Game of Thrones Wiki follows the assumption that one season corresponds roughly to one year. Evidence for this, and evidence for the contrary, is presented below.
It is possible to reconcile much of the discrepancies noted above if it assumed that Season 2 and 3 take place in the same year, and that Season 7 and 8 take place in the same year. This would give the timeline of the TV series as 298 AC (Season 1), 299 AC (Seasons 2 and 3), 300 AC (Season 4), 301 AC (Season 5), 302 AC (Season 6) and 303 AC (Seasons 7 and 8). With this timeline, the timeline of Cersei's pregnancy makes more sense, and much of the other evidence holds up as well. Sansa being 14 in Season 3 and 13 in Season 1 works out, as does Cersei being queen for "19 years" in Season 4, and Varys working to assassinate Daenerys for "20 years". It also works with the various comments about events having been "years" ago, Joffrey's wars had lasted for two years in Season 4, when Barristan commented on them lasting for "years" (two is plural), Stannis having trusted in Melisandre for years would also equal two years rather than three, still plausible. This would also go to explaining how Daenerys can claim she "did not have dragons a year ago" in Season 3 (when they were born in Season 1), and Cersei not having seen Myrcella for about a year in Season 4 (when they last saw each other in Season 2). Talisa's statement in Season 3 that indicates that the War of the Five Kings had lasted for about 2 years could be reconciled by imagining it starting early in 298 AC and her making the statement late in 299 AC (i.e. almost 2 years having passed, and imagining her to be rounding up).
The major problem with this version of the timeline is Arya Stark's age. Though Arya's age is never expicitly given within the series itself, HBO officially confirmed her to be 18 years old in Season 8. If Season 8 takes place in 303 AC, five years after Season 1, this would make Arya 13 years old in Season 1, the same age as her older sister Sansa Stark. Though the actress of Arya, Maisie Williams, was 13 when they filmed Season 1, Arya and Sansa cannot be the same age in-universe, and have to be separated by at least one year. Their ages relative to each other are never confirmed in the TV series. In the book series, Arya is three years younger than Sansa, but Sophie Turner (Sansa's actress) is just a year older than Maisie Williams. Given that they have to be at least a year apart, the timeline would have to look like one of the models below:
Given that there at most can be only a single case of two seasons taking place in a single year, and which year or seasons this would be cannot be determined with complete certainty (with there being two most likely candidates - Season 2 & 3 and Season 7 & 8), it is easier to assume that one season roughly corresponds to one year throughout the series, and as such Game of Thrones Wiki follows timeline model C above (though the others are plausible as well), placing the events of Season 8 in 305 AC.
In the book series, the last few Targaryen kings were Maekar I (ruled 221–233 AC), followed by his son Aegon V (ruled 233–259 AC), followed by his son Jaehaerys II (ruled 259–262 AC), followed by his son Aerys II (ruled 262–283 AC). In Season 1 Episode 9 ("Baelor"), when Maester Aemon recounts his lineage to Jon Snow, he states that Aegon V (Aemon's brother) was the father and direct predecessor of Aerys II, meaning that Jaehaerys II was cut from the Targaryen lineage in the TV series continuity, a deliberate change presumably done to make Aemon's explanation of his genealogy to Jon Snow more concise and less convoluted.
Though it skips an entire generation (or merges it into the next, depending on the characters involved) in the Targaryen family tree, the timeline implications of skipping Jaehaerys II are not as large as they would be if another king had been skipped as he only ruled for three years in the book series. The TV series maintains that Tywin Lannister served as Aerys II's hand of the king for twenty years before resigning after the Great Tourney of Harrenhal, which took place 1 year before Robert's Rebellion (i.e. 278 AC since the rebellion began a year before Robert became king in 280 AC), placing the beginning of Aerys II's reign in 258 AC and meaning that Jaehaerys II's reign in the book series was largely "absorbed" into that of Aerys II for the TV continuity.
The only major event of Jaehaerys II's reign in the books, the War of the Ninepenny Kings, is established by "Robert's Rebellion: Barristan Selmy" to have taken place late in the reign of Aerys II's father, meaning it happened in Aegon V's reign in the TV series continuity.
At the time of the novels, Westeros has been using a calendar system based on the year of Aegon's Landing, which occurred three centuries before. As explained above, calling it "Aegon's Landing" (AL) is somewhat anachronistic given that the "landing" happened at the beginning of the conquest but the calendar system only begins two years later, at the end of the conquest - more recent in-universe historical texts have been shifting to the alternate name "After Conquest" (AC). The difference is purely one of nomenclature: "the year 298 AL" and "the year 298 AC" are exactly the same.
The known world that Westeros and Essos are set in has variable seasons that can last for years, sometimes a decade each (though such long seasons only come once every century or two). On the average, it seems that one season can last for about two to three years or so (the full four season cycle therefore taking about a decade). There are hints that the seasons may not always have been this way: characters still define "a year" as a twelve month period, not a full cycle of summer to winter. Months are the same as in real-life, roughly a thirty day period. The term "moon-turn" is commonly used for "month".
Apparently Westeros doesn't actually have specific names for each month/moon-turn - given that even after five novels a month name has never been mentioned, and the actual month names stem from real-life history (i.e., July and August were named after Roman Emperors). When the in-universe history text from the novellas about the Dance of the Dragons give specific dates, they are usually just in the format "on the fifth day of the third moon of the year 131 AC" etc. While they seem to just refer to each month by number, keep in mind that this is essentially what the real-life Gregorian calendar does, inherited from the Romans, and their names often just stem from Latin numbers: "Sept-ember" is the seventh month, "Oct-ober" is the eighth month, etc.
Westeros also doesn't use an "o'clock" system of measuring hours in a day (they also don't have mechanical clocks). Not every culture throughout real life history has measured the first hour of a given day starting at midnight (the exact opposite of noon); some start at sunrise, others at sunset. It isn't clear at what hour one day officially becomes the next in Westeros (though given that they are an agrarian society, they probably measure by each sunrise). Each "day" apparently consists of a 24 hour period - simply so that Martin would not confuse readers when he referred to a certain amount of hours in the narrative. People in Westeros apparently just apply colloquial names to each hour of the day, i.e., the "hour of the wolf" is the darkest time in the middle of the night. A few other hour names have been mentioned in passing:
The events in the book series are faster paced than in Game of Thrones. The series was adapted from the books broadly based on the following structure:
In the book series, the date at the end of A Dance of Dragons is some time late in the year 300 AC, but the events (Stannis soon to battle the Boltons, Cersei recently having had her walk of atonement, Meereen being under siege from the slavers) correspond to Season 5 and 6 in the TV series, calculated to be years 302 and 303 AC (per above). This is partly because one book does not correspond to a year, and partly because of the decision to split the content of the third book, A Storm of Swords, into two TV seasons rather than one (as had been done for previous books).
Winterfell marked by name on the Boltons' map in "Kill the Boy".
Winterfell is the capital of the Kingdom of the North and the seat and the ancestral home of the royal House Stark. It is a very large castle located at the center of the North, from where the head of House Stark rules over his or her people.
During the War of the Five Kings, Winterfell is seized by the Starks' enemies, first by the ironborn, and later by the Boltons. Eventually the Starks liberate Winterfell. In the subsequent Great War, Winterfell is the site of the great battle between the Army of the Dead and the Starks and their allies.
According to legend, House Stark has held Winterfell for 8,000 years, though it has been considerably expanded upon over the centuries. It was said to have been built by House Stark's founder, Bran the Builder, during the Age of Heroes, who was also said to have constructed the Wall and even Storm's End.
The castle is located alongside the Kingsroad as it makes its way from the Wall to the capital of the Six Kingdoms, King's Landing, more than a thousand miles to the south. A small godswood is enclosed within the walls. It is situated atop hot springs which keep the castle warm even in the worst winters. Winding tombs below the castle contain the remains of Stark kings and lords and record the history of the ancient family. The castle has stood for millennia. According to Maester Luwin, there are hidden passageways built in the castle so its Lords could escape.
The Stark family is at Winterfell. Following Jon Arryn's death, king Robert arrives along with much of the royal court, including Cersei Lannister, their three children, Jaime and Tyrion. A great feast is held in Robert's honor. Robert visits the tomb of Lyanna Stark and asks Eddard to return with him to King's Landing as his new Hand.
After word reaches Robb that his father has been arrested in King's Landing, he calls the armies of all the Northern bannermen. Robb departs Winterfell to lead his army to war in the south and leaves Bran in charge as acting lord of Winterfell.
House Greyjoy invades the North. The treacherous Theon captures Winterfell. Theon's men turn against him and hand him over to the Boltons. After killing the ironborn, Ramsay Snow orders to destroy Winterfell. The castle is put to the torch and most of her people to the sword, with few if any survivors. All of the wooden parts of the castle are burned out, though the core stone structures remain intact.
Robb Stark, who is at Harrenhal at this point in time, receives word of the destruction of Winterfell at the hands of the Boltons. Following the Red Wedding, Roose Bolton intends to relocate to Winterfell.
House Bolton bannerman riding to Winterfell
Following the surrender of Moat Cailin, the Bolton army returns to the North, to enforce Bolton/Lannister rule, and heads for Winterfell.
The Boltons settle in at Winterfell and bring in work crews and timber to start rebuilding the burned-out parts of the castle. Stannis attempts to liberate Winterfell, but is defeated by the Boltons.
Winterfell during the battle.
The Starks defeat the Boltons. Wintefell is finally restored to House Starks.
Winterfell is retaken by the Starks.
The Northen lords gather at Winterfell and proclaim Jon the King in the North.
Jon holds court at Winterfell, in which he and Sansa prepare for the defense against the White Walkers.
Sansa helps prepare Winterfell for the Great War. Bran returns to Winterfell, and Arya too.
Jon returns to Winterfell alongside Daenerys and her troops. They are greeted in the Winterfell courtyard by the Starks.
The combined armies of the living prepare the defenses of Winterfell against the oncoming army of the dead. The White Walkers soon arrive in the night with their army of the dead, leading to a great battle. As a result of this battle, Winterfell is nearly razed completely to the ground. Many battlements, walls, and towers are destroyed, leaving the great castle in a state of ruin. The crypts beneath Winterfell also received damage.
For the television series, a variety of locations were used to create Winterfell as it appears on screen. For the pilot, Doune Castle in Scotland was used for some exterior shots and the great feast held when King Robert Baratheon and his party arrive. Castle Ward in County Down, Northern Ireland was used for the scenes of sparring in Winterfell's castle yard and the arrival of Robert's party at Winterfell's gates. The rest of the castle, including the other interiors and the scenes involving Bran climbing the walls, were filmed as interiors at the Paint Hall studio facility in Belfast. For the first season itself, Castle Ward was the principal filming location for the Winterfell scenes. Doune Castle was not revisited. One of the only full scenes from Doune Castle to survive from the pilot is the scene in the crypts of Winterfell when Eddard and Robert visit Lyanna's grave. All subsequent appearances of the Winterfell crypts from Season 2 onward were filmed in the cellars of Shane's Castle in Northern Ireland.
While it isn't visible on-camera at all, the cellars of Shane's Castle are infested with numerous spiders. Any scenes in the cellars involving candles with open flames (all of them, because it is dark) will make swarms of spiders crawl out of their hiding places to scramble away from the heat source. The actors report that while the camera can't see them, they can, and there are so many they can hear them - and even feel them falling onto them. The actors don't like filming scenes in the cellar as a result.
As of the end of Season 5, Winterfell is one of three locations (the others being King's Landing and Castle Black/the Wall) to be featured in every opening credits sequence, regardless as to whether the location is actually visited in the episode (this includes Season 3 and virtually all of Season 4 during which Winterfell is never visited nor seen at all).
As explained in the Blu-ray commentary, the main Winterfell set was greatly expanded in Season 5. The original sets from Seasons 1 and 2 primarily consisted of the outer courtyard, the feast hall, and one interior bedroom which could be redressed (for Eddard and Catelyn's room, Bran's room, etc.), but otherwise there wasn't an extensive interconnected interior set. For Season 5, the production team constructed a complex of staircases, corridors and bedrooms, all added on top of the existing courtyard and feast hall.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Winterfell is a huge castle complex spanning several acres, consisting of two massive walls with a ditch between them and a village located just outside. The complex consists of many buildings and keeps, some ancient and decrepit, some in good repair. According to legend, Winterfell was built by Bran the Builder eight thousand years ago.
The castle has been built over natural hot springs, and the scalding waters rush through its walls and chambers like blood through a man’s body, driving the chill from the stone halls, filling the glass gardens with a moist warmth, keeping the earth from freezing. Open pools smoke day and night in a dozen small courtyards. In summer, it is insignificant; in winter, it is the difference between life and death.
There is no mentioning in the novels that there are any hidden passageways in the castle.
The full castle as it appears at the start of the narrative has not been standing for eight thousand years: it was gradually expanded over many centuries like a tree growing new branches, giving it a less organized appearance than large castles which were planned out all at once such as the Red Keep in King's Landing. Parts have also had to be rebuilt over time, either due to natural degeneration or damage in sieges (Winterfell was burned out several times in ancient wars with the Boltons and other enemies, but the Starks always rallied and rebuilt it). The eldest surviving part of the castle is the First Keep, an old tower no longer actively used, which some maesters think dates back to some point after the Andal Invasion began six thousand years ago.
The crypts underneath Winterfell are massive - larger than the entire castle complex above ground. This is a testament to just how long the Starks have held Winterfell: according to tradition, there should be eight thousand years' worth of tombs in the crypts. According to tradition, while all Stark family members are buried in the crypts, statues are only made for those who were head of House Stark (either as kings or later as lords). There have been some exceptions over the generations, and Eddard himself had statues made at the tombs of his older brother Brandon and his sister Lyanna. The most ancient tombs are in the lower levels, and the more current ones closer to the surface. Many of the lower levels are half-collapsed and unexplored. With their vast size and lack of active use, it is quite easy for someone to hide in the crypts for weeks or even months at a time, as Bran, Rickon, and their followers did during the Sack of Winterfell, provided that they bring sufficient supplies with them. According to legend, when the infamous wildling rogue Bael the Bard seduced the daughter of a Stark lord, they hid out in the crypts for nearly a year undetected, long enough that when the daughter one day reappeared in her chambers she had with her the infant son that she had with Bael.
Crownlands (all historical):House Bar EmmonHouse BlountHouse Brune{House Cargyll}House CeltigarHouse Chelsted{House Darklyn}House GauntHouse Massey{House Qoherys}House RosbyHouse RykkerHouse StauntonHouse StokeworthHouse SunglassHouse ThorneHouse Velaryon
The banner of House Targaryen, the royal house of Westeros.
House Targaryen of Dragonstone[N 2] is an exiled Great House of Westeros and the former royal house of the Seven Kingdoms. House Targaryen conquered and unified the realm before it was deposed during Robert's Rebellion, where House Baratheon replaced it as the new royal house. The two surviving Targaryens, Viserys and Daenerys, fled into exile to the Free Cities of Essos across the Narrow Sea.
House Lannister replaced House Baratheon as the royal house in the aftermath of the War of the Five Kings, but they were defeated in Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros. After Daenerys burnt King's Landing, she was assassinated by her nephew Jon Snow to prevent further destruction. Jon is the last known Targaryen, but his identity as the son of Rhaegar Targaryen is kept a secret, and he was exiled to the Night's Watch for the assassination of Daenerys, effectively ending House Targaryen. However, the bloodline of House Targaryen still exists in various houses, such as House Baratheon, House Velaryon, and House Martell.
House Targaryen's sigil is a three-headed red dragon on a black background, and their house words are "Fire and Blood."[N 1] The head of House Targaryen is referred to as "the dragon."
House Targaryen was one of the forty dragonlord families of the Valyrian Freehold, an empire that rose in Essos and dominated much of the known world. Due to their mastery of dragons, and thus sorcery, they had no real opposition to contend with. Using dragonfire and magic, they built their grand capital city of Valyria, which was unmatched in quality in the east.
The Valyrian Freehold's reign would continue until the Doom of Valyria, a cataclysmic event that ultimately fractured the mighty empire and left the Targaryens as the last surviving dragonlords, due to Daenys the Dreamer having foreseen the disaster and convincing her father to leave their capital and take their family to Dragonstone, in spite of their rivals' sneers (another reason could be that Aenar met with some mishap at court and chose exile over execution). Dragonstone would become the seat of their power, due to its importance in their survival, and Aegon Targaryen would end the Century of Blood after Valyria's fall by joining the Free Cities' side against Volantis.
After a century of isolation, Aegon, disinterested in the eastern lands of his ancestors, which he saw as old and withered, looked west to the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, which he sought to conquer and unify into one realm, with the aid of his dragons and his sister-wives Rhaenys and Visenya.
In the Targaryen era there were periods of peace and prosperity during the reign of benevolent kings like Jaehaerys the Conciliator, but also periods of terror and distress when evil tyrants like Maegor the Cruel ruled. The civil population of Westeros suffered a lot especially during the bloody conflicts between opposing branches of House Targaryen, like the Dance of the Dragons and the Blackfyre Rebellions.
During the increasingly erratic reign of King Aerys II, his son Rhaegar was said to have kidnapped Lyanna Stark of Winterfell for unknown reasons; this led to a massive uprising led by Eddard Stark, Robert Baratheon, and Jon Arryn. At the end of this war, Aerys and Rhaegar were dead and the Targaryen power-base in Westeros destroyed. Aerys's youngest children, Viserys and Daenerys, were taken by Targaryen loyalists into exile in the Free Cities of the East.  Unknown to most, however, Rhaegar had his marriage with Elia Martell annulled and remarried Lyanna, with whom he also had a son, Jon Snow. As Lyanna lay dying after giving birth to her son, she pleaded with her brother Eddard to keep her baby safe from Robert, who surely would want her baby dead due to Robert's immense hatred for Rhaegar and promise to wipe out the Targaryen bloodline. She reveals her son's name is 'Aegon Targaryen'. To protect his sister's son from Robert, Eddard takes his infant nephew back with him to Winterfell, names him 'Jon', and claims him as his illegitimate son, raising Jon as his own child alongside his trueborn children. The child would become Jon Snow and grows up with the maternal side of his family.
Generations of compound inbreeding have preserved in the Targaryen bloodline the classic Valyrian features of silver-white (platinum blonde) hair, and very fair, pale skin. Allegedly, this also preserved in their bloodline the ability to successfully bond with and ride dragons. They also seem to be somewhat more tolerant of extreme heat and high temperatures than other people, though they are by no means invulnerable to fire – or at least, not all of them. Unfortunately, some believe that this practice of inbreeding has also caused the trait of insanity to plague House Targaryen; though some members are known to be perfectly normal psychologically-speaking, other Targaryens throughout history have displayed bizarre, erratic and sometimes violent behavior, succumbing to the so-called 'Targaryen madness'.
Viserys and Daenerys, the last of the known Targaryens.
Viserys Targaryen arranges for the marriage of his sister Daenerys to the powerful Dothraki Khal Drogo in exchange for a promise that Drogo will help him to reclaim his crown.  Daenerys is given a trio of ancient fossilized dragon eggs as a gift.
Daenerys emerges from the pyre with dragons.
Following the deaths of Viserys, and Drogo, most of the Drothraki abandon Daenerys. She steps into Drogo's funeral pyre, emerging unharmed and holding the dragon hatchlings in her hands.
Daenerys and her few followers cross the Red Waste, finally arriving in Qarth. After an attempt to steal the dragons, Daenerys and the remnants of her khalasar raid Xaro's wealthy home and leave.
Daenerys and her retainers flee Qarth by ship, heading for Astapor to purchase an army. Daenerys is nearly assassinated, but is rescued by Ser Barristan Selmy, who has tracked her down to pledge fealty to House Targaryen once again. Daenerys double-crosses the Good Masters, seizing their elite Unsullied and burning the slave-owning elite. Daenerys thus becomes the first Targaryen in generations to march at the head of her own conquering army. Daenerys heads to Yunkai, where she manages to win over the Second Sons and liberate that city from the Wise Masters.
The now-sizable Targaryen army moves on Meereen, and conquers it with the aid of a slave revolt. Daenerys decides to remain in Meereen and rule as queen until the slaves are truly free and she has enough force to take all of Westeros.
Daenerys continues to try to control Meereen but faces major opposition from the Sons of the Harpy. Meanwhile, in Pentos, Varys works to convert a new asset to the Targaryen cause: the fugitive Tyrion Lannister, whom Daenerys aaccepts as her advisor.
Whilst attending the games at Daznak's Pit, Daenerys is almost assassinated, but is saved by Drogon, who carries Daenerys away into the Dothraki Sea and making her the first Targaryen dragon rider in centuries.
Daenerys has been captured and brought before Khal Moro, but manages to get free with the help of Daario Naharis and Jorah. The Dothraki immediately show their allegiance to Daenerys, thus making her the leader of all the Dothraki present, including at least 100,000 Dothraki warriors. Daenerys returns to Meereen, which is besieged, and defeats her enemies.
Daenerys meets Theon and Yara Greyjoy, who have arrived to pledge their fleet to the Targaryen cause. Back in Westeros, Varys secures the assistance of Dorne and House Tyrell. Daenerys and her army sail to Westeros.
Meanwhile, Bran Stark learns that his half-brother Jon Snow is actually the son of Lyanna and the last living child of Rhaegar Targaryen.
Daenerys approaches Dragonstone with Tyrion.
Daenerys arrives at Dragonstone, her birthplace and the ancestral stronghold of House Targaryen.
Daenerys suffers several major setbacks: her ironborn fleet is destroyed by Euron Greyjoy; the Unsullied capture Casterly Rock, but end up stranded at the castle; Jaime leads an army to Highgarden, sacking the castle and knocking the Tyrells out of the war.
Daenerys and Jon Snow, unaware of their familial ties, meet.
Daenerys gains a potential ally in Jon Snow, now King in the North. Daenerys later leads the Dothraki against the Lannister army, defeating the army and cutting them off from King's Landing.
In the Citadel, Gilly and Sam find out that Jon is actually a trueborn Targaryen, thus he is the rightful heir to the Iron Throne.
Daenerys and Drogon after ambushing the Lannister-Tarly host.
Jon pledges allegiance to Daenerys.
Jon gives up his crown to Daenerys and pledges allegiance to her as his queen.
At the Dragonpit in King's Landing, Daenerys offers a truce to Cersei Lannister, but in vain.
Bran Stark sees Rhaegar and Lyanna's wedding.
Daenerys sails with Jon to Winterfell, and they become lovers.
Daenerys and Jon arrive at Winterfell.
Jon Snow becomes a dragonrider, riding Rhaegal.
Sam informs Jon of his true parentage and calls him the rightful heir to the Iron Throne, Aegon of House Targaryen, the Sixth of His Name. Jon says that pressing his claim is treason, expressing no interest in the Iron Throne and reinforcing his loyalty towards his queen.
Jon and Daenerys oversee the start of the Battle of Winterfell.
The Targaryen and Stark forces fight and defeat the army of the dead at the Battle of Winterfell.
The Targaryen fleet sails back to Dragonstone.
The Targaryen fleet is suddenly ambushed and destroyed by Euron.
Daenerys burns King's Landing with Drogon.
The Targaryen, Stark, and Arryn forces attack King's Landing. Even after the Lannisters surrender, the Targaryen, Stark, and Arryn forces sack the city, while a mad Daenerys burns the city.
Daenerys overlooks a ruined King's Landing.
House Targaryen is restored to royalty. Daenerys intends to conquer the world and put an end to the rule of all tyrants. Jon reluctantly kills her.
Jon holds Daenerys's body after assassinating her.
Drogon unleashes his fire across the throne room, melting the Iron Throne, destroying what Aegon the Conqueror built and "breaking the wheel" that have plagued Westeros for over 300 years. He picks up Daenerys's body and flies away, leaving a grieved Jon behind.
Jon, the last known Targaryen, bends the knee to Bran I the Broken.
Jon is sent to the Wall by the new king, Brandon I Stark. As a member of the Night's Watch, Jon is prohibited from fathering children and House Targaryen will become extinct with Jon's death.
The crown of Aegon the Conqueror.
House Targaryen's military strength has fluctuated over the last few years under Daenerys Targaryen's leadership. Since the death of her husband Khal Drogo, Daenerys has commanded a khalasar containing only a few dozen riders, less than half of whom are warriors, as well as a single trained knight, Jorah Mormont. During her time in the Red Waste and Qarth, Daenerys's dragons were not large enough to provide combat assistance.
By the time Daenerys reached Astapor in Slaver's Bay, her dragons had grown enough to provide limited air support in certain engagements, and she had gained the loyalty of an additional knight, Ser Barristan Selmy. It should be pointed out that although limited, the dragons at this time are capable of providing the only air support in the known world.
Following the Sack of Astapor, Daenerys gained an army of 8,000 fully trained Unsullied, elite warrior-eunuchs who fight in large, disciplined phalanx formations, as well as several hundred Unsullied-in-training who serve as auxiliaries.
Shortly after arriving at Yunkai, Daenerys is able to secure the affection of Daario Naharis, a lieutenant in the Second Sons. During a parley between Daenerys and the captains of the Second Sons, Daario points out that Daenerys's Unsullied are impressive infantry, but she still possesses no cavalry, siege weapons, or ships. Later that night, Daario slays the captains of the Second Sons, makes himself captain, and pledges the company to Daenerys. The Second Sons add 2,000 armored cavalry to the growing Targaryen army.
During Daenerys's rule of Meereen, the Unsullied and the Second Sons take light, but constant losses, most of them assassinated by the Sons of the Harpy. The greatest losses of this time were both of her knights: Daenerys banished Ser Jorah upon learning that he had once spied on her for Robert Baratheon, and Ser Barristan was killed by the Sons of the Harpy. During her time in Meereen, her forces took control of the Meereenese Navy that consisted of 93 ships, although the fleet was later destroyed in the harbor.
After burning the Dothraki khals in Vaes Dothrak, Daenerys emerges unburnt from the flames, and all the people in the city bow down to her. In perhaps her greatest turnaround yet, Daenerys secured the loyalty of the roughly 100,000 Dothraki assembled at the time, finally gaining the numbers – though not the means – to retake Westeros.
By this point, all three dragons had grown significantly larger, with Drogon, in particular, becoming larger than a carriage due to his continued freedom. He is now large enough for Daenerys to sit comfortably across his back, and has begun to obey her commands while riding. Should they be tamed and ridden, all three dragons are now large enough to coordinate aerial assaults should the need arise. During the Second Siege of Meereen, all three dragons were deployed to devastating effect, even though Drogon was the only one being ridden.
Upon breaking the Second Siege, Daenerys took possession of the remains of their armada, roughly 200 ships. Shortly after, she was visited by Theon and Yara Greyjoy, who offered their ships – the better part of the formidable Iron Fleet – to her in exchange for supporting Yara's claim to the Salt Throne, to which Daenerys agreed, on the condition that the ironborn change their ways forever.
There are no official allies or vassals of House Targaryen left in Westeros. In truth, Varys is a Targaryen loyalist and possesses a vast spy network, but by himself, Varys commands no military forces and cannot be considered a military asset. He eventually relocated to Meereen and began openly serving Daenerys, again mostly through coordinating his spy network.
King Robert Baratheon expressed fear that even after all these years, there are still a sizable number of noble Houses in Westeros who are either secret Targaryen loyalists or who later developed some grievance with Robert's rule, and would flock to the Targaryen banner if they attempted to retake the Iron Throne in open war. It is not clear what influence his opinions since Ser Jorah stressed to Dany that the number of Targaryen loyalists remaining in Westeros is far lower than Viserys liked to believe. Viserys believed that because House Tyrell of the Reach and House Martell of Dorne fought on the Targaryen side during Robert's Rebellion, the prospects were good that they'd be willing to join his cause and rebel against Robert. Nonetheless, for much of Robert's reign, and most of the War of the Five Kings that followed, it is unknown that dissatisfied Houses would support a Targaryen return, while House Tyrell had become closely aligned with the Lannister-backed House Baratheon.
However, following the Assassination of Balon Greyjoy, the Coup in Dorne and the Destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor, the attitudes of several major factions changed dramatically. Fleeing their uncle upon his success at the Kingsmoot, Yara and Theon Greyjoy made for Meereen, where they agreed to support Daenerys's claim and provide transport for Daenerys's army, as well as support at sea, in exchange for Yara's accession to the Salt Throne, independent of the Seven Kingdoms. Daenerys accepted the independence of the Iron Islands, provided that the independent Ironborn give up all reaving, raping and pillaging, to which Yara reluctantly acquiesced. Meanwhile, Ellaria, in desperate need of allies, agreed to support Daenerys's invasion. At Varys's urging, she also reached out to Olenna Tyrell, who was out for revenge against Cersei Lannister.
As a result, House Targaryen gained the support of the largely intact forces of the Reach, Dorne, and the Iron Islands. After the recent events of her invasion of Westeros, Daenerys's army had already taken several heavy blows. Yara's Ironborn fleet was destroyed by her uncle, Euron Greyjoy. The Sand Snakes, along with Yara, were captured by Euron, effectively knocking Dorne out of the war. Jaime Lannister then led an army into the Reach to sack Highgarden, also knocking House Tyrell out of the war. The Unsullied took moderate casualties at the Fall of Casterly Rock, which was likewise the case with the Dothraki at the Battle of the Goldroad. When Jon Snow, King in the North, sought an alliance with Daenerys for her help in defeating the Army of the Dead threatening all of humanity, he initially refused her condition that he bend the knee as he did not know her yet. However, when Daenerys came to rescue Jon's party Beyond the Wall and the Night King managed to kill Viserion with an ice spear, upon which Daenerys vowed to fight the Night King at Jon's side, Jon bent the knee to Daenerys as queen and agreed to pledge his Northern forces to her. The Night King reanimated Viserion as a wight, leaving Drogon and Rhaegal as Daenerys's living dragons.
Half of the Dothraki and Unsullied troops were killed during the Great War. The remainder were forced to scatter and retreat behind the walls of Winterfell. Although both Drogon and Rhaegal survived, they were injured during the battle against the dead. After the Great War, Targaryen forces still maintained roughly a dozen ships in the royal fleet and a contingent of Unsullied forces. After Euron shot down and killed Rhaegal with scorpion bolts, Drogon became Daenerys’s only living dragon.
Daenerys had Varys burned alive by Drogon for treason shortly before the Battle of King's Landing. The Targaryen-Northern forces suffered light casualties in the battle, but they emerged victorious when the city surrendered to Daenerys, allowing her to take the Iron Throne. However, Daenerys laid waste to a surrendered King's Landing, killing thousands of civilians in the process. She declared to her assembled Dothraki and Unsullied forces that they "liberated" the people of King's Landing and will do so all over the world. Daenerys had Tyrion Lannister arrested for treason upon finding out Tyrion tried to save his brother Jaime. Jon pleaded with Daenerys to stop this path of destruction but Daenerys believed her actions were necessary to build her ideal world. Unable to dissuade her, an agonized Jon assassinated her to prevent more carnage upon the world. Drogon was anguished to discover his mother’s lifeless body, but he did not blame Jon for her death. Instead, he used his fiery breath to melt the Iron Throne before carrying Daenerys across the Narrow Sea.
After Daenerys’s death, Grey Worm and the Unsullied sailed to Naath to protect its people as Grey Worm had promised Missandei. Meanwhile, the Dothraki either returned to Essos or integrated themselves into Westerosi society.
1 Jaehaerys had thirteen children in all. For simplicity, only the direct ancestors of future generations are on this family tree and they are not in the exact order of birth. The thirteen children in correct order are: Aegon, Daenerys, Aemon, Baelon, Alyssa, Maegelle, Vaegon, Daella, Saera, Viserra, Gaemon, Valerion, and Gael.
2 While Jacaerys, Lucerys, and Joffrey are officially Laenor's, he and Rhaenyra never had any biological issue. His three sons are in fact fathered by Harwin Strong.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Targaryen family (they were not a formal House, as this was a Westerosi concept not found in the Freehold) moved from Valyria to Dragonstone, then the most far-flung outpost of the Valyrian Freehold, apparently in fear of a prophecy predicting the destruction of Valyria a century before it happened. Both before and after their relocation, the Targaryens were counted among the dragonlords, the forty or so powerful families who bred, raised and rode their own dragons and thus dominated Valyrian politics and culture. They were, however, never among the most powerful of those families. After the fall of Valyria, the Targaryens stayed on Dragonstone for a hundred years, apparently hoarding the strength of their dragons and debating whether to invade Westeros or to attempt to seize control of the Valyrian colony-states which later became known as the Free Cities. When the time came, the Targaryens ultimately assisted the Free Cities in asserting their continued independence and then proceeded to invade Westeros.
House Targaryen ruled Westeros for 283 years, during which time they survived substantial civil wars (including the Dance of Dragons and no fewer than five Blackfyre Rebellions), plague (the Great Spring Sickness), and an attempted foreign invasion (in the War of the Ninepenny Kings). They were brought down when the Mad King's insanity became too dangerous to be ignored.
The Targaryens adopted the religion and many of the customs of Westeros, but they clung to two old Valyrian customs in defiance of public disapproval: Targaryen princes and kings were allowed to have multiple wives, and Targaryens were allowed to marry brother to sister, something considered taboo elsewhere in Westeros. The former custom was apparently considered outdated in Valyria itself, but the latter was fairly common.
The generations of Targaryen inbreeding produced a distinctive set of physical features shared by all of their members during the House's three centuries of rule. This includes a generally pale appearance with silver-white (platinum blonde) hair and purple irises. While pale, they are not albinos, although their eyebrows are white. The actors playing Daenerys and Viserys are actually both dark-haired, so they had to wear wigs, although the production team decided not to dye their eyebrows to match. The TV series opted not to portray the Targaryens with purple eyes, partially due to the logistical difficulty of matching purple contact lenses for actors in every shot. The TV series originally filmed Viserys and Daenerys wearing violet contact lenses, but show creators David Benioff and Dan Weiss quickly abandoned their use. As they explained in the Season 1 Blu-ray episode commentaries, "actors act with their eyes, and [the lenses] really hurt the emotion."
By the point the novels reached, there are two living descendants of the house: Daenerys and Aegon Targaryen, the son of Rhaegar and Elia who is revealed to be alive in A Dance with Dragons. Since Jon Snow's parantage has yet to be confirmed in the books, Aegon has the strongest claim to the Iron Throne, ahead of Daenerys, although his legitimacy is questioned by Tommen's small council. A popular fan theory states that Aegon is really the son of Illyrio Mopatis and his late wife Serra, a possible member of House Blackfyre.
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Targaryen" is pronounced "Tar-GAIR-ee-in".
Myrcella and Tommen, prince and princess of the Baratheon dynasty.
Prince or princess are titles held by the members of a ruling family, usually the royal family. The title is usually held by all the children of a monarch. The heir apparent to the throne, typically the oldest child of the monarch, or oldest male child in male-preference primogeniture, is sometimes referred to as the crown prince or crown princess or another substantive title such as Prince of Dragonstone.
If a monarch is newly crowned, be it through conquest, usurpation, or declaring independence, his or her children will typically become princes or princesses, but it varies if his or her siblings become princes and princesses. For example, after Robert Baratheon usurped the crown, his younger brothers, Stannis and Renly, were never given princely titles. Instead, they gained lordships and respective positions on the Small Council. In contrast, when Robb Stark declared the North an independent kingdom again, he and his followers considered all of his younger siblings (with the exception of his bastard half-brother, Jon Snow) to be princes and princesses.
The title of prince or princess is sometimes used by monarchs ruling over a principality, such as the Prince of Dorne when Dorne was an independent kingdom.
During the rule of House Targaryen, most members of the royal family held the title of prince or princess, except for members of branches that were not expected to inherit the throne: although Daemon Targaryen was a prince because he was the son of the Prince of Dragonstone (heir apparent), his daughters with Laena Velaryon were styled as ladies rather than princesses. His sons with Rhaenyra, however, were princes because Rhaenyra was the Princess of Dragonstone.
The heir to the Iron Throne held the title of Prince of Dragonstone, and ruled the former seat of House Targaryen, Dragonstone, with the noble houses sworn to Dragonstone as vassals. Although the husband of the Princess of Dragonstone is styled as the "prince consort," the wife of the Prince of Dragonstone is styled only as "lady," as was the case with Jocelyn Baratheon, the wife of Prince Aemon Targaryen.
During the reign of King Robert I, his three children, Joffrey, Tommen and Myrcella all hold princely titles. When Joffrey becomes king following Robert's death, Tommen and Myrcella retain their titles.
When Stannis Baratheon learns that Joffrey, Tommen and Myrcella are products of Cersei and Jaime Lannister's incestuous relations, he declares himself to be the rightful king, and his daughter Shireen becomes a princess. In Season 5, she is specifically referred to as "The Princess Shireen of House Baratheon".
After Cersei Lannister ascended the Iron Throne following the legal extinction of House Baratheon, her twin brother Ser Jaime Lannister, who, as her closest living male relative could be considered heir presumptive, did not receive a princely title.
When Robb Stark was named the first King in the North in almost 300 years by his bannermen during the War of the Five Kings, his four younger siblings were officially considered to be princes and princesses of the new realm. Prince Bran Stark briefly ruled Winterfell in Robb's absence as his legal heir, alongside the youngest Stark child, Rickon Stark.
Though Robb's sisters were officially princesses, they were in practice rarely referred to in person by the title. Sansa Stark remained a hostage of the Lannisters in King's Landing, who did not acknowledge the independence of the North, and therefore would not encourage this by referring to Sansa as a princess, any more than they would acknowledge Robb Stark as a king. Arya Stark, in the meantime, escaped King's Landing with the Night's Watch but went on the run through the Riverlands under an assumed identity, and thus didn't insist that others call her by her real name, much less that she was a princess. Robb and his mother Catelyn, at the Stark camp, do refer to Sansa and Arya as "princesses" when discussing them, but this never occurs in face-to-face relations.
When Balon Greyjoy used the opportunity of the War of the Five Kings to declare the Iron Islands an independent kingdom once again, his two surviving children gain the title. The Kingship of the Iron Islands, however, has historically operated under a traditional elective monarchy. Even in times when the crown was hereditary, the exact system was often uncertain. Thus there was jockeying for position over who exactly is Balon's heir depending on what system they are using: whether it should be his eldest son (Theon), his eldest child (his daughter Yara), or if his younger brothers should be considered next in line of succession, ahead of his children.
Theon Greyjoy also stylized himself the ruling Prince of Winterfell after he captured and held the castle for a short period of time.
As claimants to the Iron Islands, neither Euron nor Yara Greyjoy use princely titles, each stylizing themselves as king or queen. It is possible that Aeron Greyjoy, as the brother of two kings, could be considered a prince, but as a priest of the Drowned God, he has not used that title.
House Martell ruled Dorne as princes even after bending the knee to the Iron Throne. The head of the family held the title of Prince of Dorne, or Princess in the case of a female head, while the rest of the family holds the titles of prince or princess.
While the title "Prince" in other parts of the Seven Kingdoms is typically used to indicate the heir to the throne, Dorne has ruling Princes (or ruling Princesses). This is a holdover from centuries ago when the Rhoynar ruled city-states along the Rhoyne River in Essos. Dorne had a ruling Prince when it was an independent kingdom, and only unified with the Targaryen realm one century ago; not through conquest but through marriage. As a result of this voluntary union, the Martell rulers of Dorne were allowed to continue to style themselves as "Princes" even though they were no longer the absolute sovereign.
With the assassination of Doran Martell and his heir, Prince Trystane, the status of this title was uncertain. It is unknown whether Ellaria Sand styled herself as Princess after assuming power in Dorne. After the imprisonment of Ellaria Sand in King's Landing, the title has been assumed by an unnamed Martell.
In the Free City of Pentos, the nominal ruler is a Prince, a figurehead ruler chosen by the Magisters of the city.
Winterfell, the seat of the Lord of Winterfell.
The Lord of Winterfell is the ruler of the stronghold Winterfell, the capital of the North and seat of House Stark.
For generations, the title has been held by members of House Stark, until recently: during the War of the Five Kings, the title was taken by enemies of the Starks (Greyjoys and Boltons), but eventually House Stark reclaimed Winterfell and this title after the Battle of the Bastards.
According to the male-preference primogeniture law of inheritance followed in Westeros, Bran Stark is the rightful heir to Winterfell, ahead of Jon, a bastard, and Sansa, a female; however, Bran abdicated his lordship on the grounds that the Three-Eyed Raven cannot be the lord of anything. Bran's assertion upheld the recent status quo: Jon as Warden of the North and Sansa as Lady of Winterfell. However, after Sansa is crowned Queen in the North, both titles are presumably reunited under the current sovereign of the north.
Rickard Stark held the title until he was murdered, along with his eldest son Brandon by the Mad King, sparking Robert's Rebellion. Rickard's second son Eddard Stark is the holder until his death, then the title passes to his eldest son Robb. Following his father's death, Robb goes to war and leaves his brother Bran to be Lord of Winterfell in his absence.
During the War of the Five Kings, Theon is assigned to raid the Stony Shore, but instead seizes Winterfell as his own, making him the new Lord of Winterfell.
Robb and many of his followers are murdered at the Red Wedding. For his part in the massacre, Roose Bolton is named Warden of the North, becoming the new Lord of Winterfell, although he does not immediately move there.
Stannis offers to legitimize Jon Snow. He admits that his goal is to legitimize Jon as a full member of House Stark and install him as the Lord of Winterfell, surmising that the Northern lords will rally to Stannis's cause to take the Iron Throne if Stannis has the backing of a Stark lord. Jon ultimately declines the offer, leaving Winterfell's heir as Ramsay Bolton.
Ramsay becomes the new Lord of Winterfell after he murders his father. After the Battle of the Bastards and Ramsay's death, Sansa is now Lady of Winterfell.
Sansa continues to be styled the Lady of Winterfell, and continues to govern alongside Jon, the elected King in the North. Bran, the rightful Lord of Winterfell, returns home and reunites with Sansa, who is currently ruling the Kingdom of the North in Jon's absence. Sansa declares Bran is now Lord of Winterfell, as the last trueborn son of their father, but he declines his inheritance for his duty as the Three-Eyed Raven. Hence, Sansa remains Lady of Winterfell.
After arriving at Winterfell, Tyrion compliments Sansa on her title, stating that the Lady of Winterfell has "a nice ring to it." Jon abdicates his kingship, in order to secure Daenerys's support in the coming battle. However, Sansa, as Lady of Winterfell, seeks to preserve the North, even if it means securing their independence once again. In a private meeting with Daenerys, the leaders discuss the future of the Seven Kingdoms after they defeat the Army of the Dead and Cersei. Sansa insists the North earned their independence in the Battle of the Bastards and promised never to kneel to a monarch outside of the North ever again.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire, prior to Aegon the Conquerer's War of Conquest, the Lords of Winterfell styled themselves as Kings in the North.
After Torrhen Stark gave up his crown, Aegon named him Lord of Winterfell (and Warden of the North), and since then the title passed to members of House Stark till its recent downfall.
The Wardens of the Seven Kingdoms before the War of the Five Kings, from left to right: Robin Arryn (Warden of the East), Mace Tyrell (Warden of the South), Eddard Stark (Warden of the North) and Tywin Lannister (Warden of the West).
The current Wardens of the Six Kingdoms, from left to right: Robin Arryn (Warden of the East), Gendry Baratheon (Warden of the South) and Tyrion Lannister (Warden of the West).
Warden (female equivalent being Wardeness) is a title bestowed upon the head of a Great House by the ruler of the Seven Kingdoms. The Wardens command the armies of one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms in the name of Iron Throne for the defense of the entire realm. The Warden of a constituency is expected to lawfully command a quarter of all armies in the realm during a time of crisis.
By custom, the title is functionally hereditary. However, a Warden does not necessarily have to also be one of the Lords Paramount (rulers of the constituent regions of the realm) though this is almost always the case. For example, if an elderly or infirm ruler came to be the head of one of the Great Houses listed below, the office of Warden might be delegated to another family member young and capable enough to lead armies in the field. Likewise, if the head of one of the Great Houses listed below was too young, the office of Warden may be delegated to an older and more experienced individual.
Warden appears to be a title holding higher rank than that of "Lord Paramount." The Lords of the Riverlands do not traditionally hold the title of Warden and instead submit to the Warden of their area, the situation was similar for the Lords of the Stormlands prior to the extinction of House Tyrell. As of 305 AC, the ruler of the Stormlands is the Warden of the South instead of the ruler of the Reach. The Prince of Dorne is not a Warden, but has full control over their armies so it can be presumed that the Prince has the same military authority of a Warden in Dorne. Although there were traditionally four Wardens in Westeros, the office of Warden of the North was abolished in 305 AC following the secession of the North.
Typically, the Warden of the North defends against wildling attacks that come south of the Wall. The Warden of the West, from House Lannister, defends against coastal raids from the Iron Islands. House Greyjoy were not chosen to be Wardens, because more often than not, they are what the Warden of the West is defending against. Even though they submitted to the Iron Throne, illicit ironborn raiding would occur from time to time and would have to be suppressed. The Warden of the South, from House Tyrell, would defend against border skirmishes with Dorne, as Dorne actually retained its independence for two centuries after the Targaryen Conquest, and was only united to the realm (by marriage alliance) a century before the War of the Five Kings. This is why House Martell of Dorne is not the Warden of the South. The Warden of the East, from House Arryn, seems to have defended against raids or invasion from the Free Cities across the Narrow Sea, such as the threat during the War of the Ninepenny Kings when an invasion was mounted from the Stepstones in the Narrow Sea.
House Tully were not Wardens, probably because the Riverlands are centrally located within the realm and far from external threats. It is not clear why House Baratheon were not named as Wardens, as the Stormlands border Dorne to the south (and thus they could have been Wardens of the South), and also border the Narrow Sea like the Vale (and thus could have been Wardens of the East). The Tyrells may have been chosen as Wardens of the South due to the larger army and population of the Reach, and because more Dornish attacks may have been targeted at the fertile lands of the Reach instead of the forests of the Stormlands. House Arryn may have been chosen ahead of the Baratheons as Wardens of the East because they had to deal with contentious Hill tribes in their mountains and thus needed the military assets at their disposal to deal with them. Also, the Andal Invasion thousands of years ago began in the Vale of Arryn, so it has been used an invasion corridor across the Narrow Sea before.
After Jon Arryn died, Queen Cersei managed to convince King Robert to name her brother Jaime Lannister as the Warden of the East, because Jon's only son and heir Robert "Sweetrobin" Arryn is just a child. This greatly angered many lords in the Vale because Jaime has no connection to House Arryn or the Vale, so they begin to defiantly refer to Sweetrobin as the "True Warden of the East". Ned Stark is also opposed to Robert's decree because it puts the armies of two regions under command of a single house. Jaime, however, never actually travels to the Vale or makes any attempt to take command of the Vale's armies during these few months, and thus his hold on the title was nominal. Jaime continues to technically hold the position while he spent a full year as a prisoner of the Starks after the Battle of the Whispering Wood, although his imprisonment meant that the position was left officially vacant. The title of Warden of the East is restored to Sweetrobin by Tywin Lannister as one of the conditions of the marriage-alliance between Lysa and Petyr Baelish which brings House Arryn back into the Lannister fold. The TV series omitted this entire subplot.
Following Tywin's death, Cersei gives the title of Warden of the West to Daven Lannister, son of Ser Stafford Lannister - not because she trusts Daven, but due to an unpleasant exchange of words with Kevan, who rejects the post of Hand of the King after Cersei refuses to name him Lord Regent as well and relocate to Casterly Rock. Daven does not regard his appointment lightly, but he feels that his uncle Kevan should have been chosen for that office.
By the point the books reached, the four major Wardens of Westeros are as followed:
In addition to the four major Wardens, in the books there are other lesser Wardens which control certain areas:
In The World of Ice & Fire and Fire & Blood, a fifth major Warden title called Warden of the Sands was created by Aegon the Conqueror during the First Dornish War. Jon Rosby was appointed to this position to rule Dorne in the king's name. However, the Iron Throne was defeated by the Dornishmen, stopping Aegon's attempt to disestablish the princedom of House Martell. When Dorne entered the Seven Kingdoms over a century later, the position of Warden of the Sands wasn't renewed; the Martells continued styling themselves as Princes of Dorne.
Sansa Stark is crowned Queen in the North.
King in the North (feminine equivalent being Queen in the North) is the title given to the ruler of the North during its time as an independent kingdom, before and after the coming of the Targaryens. A colloquial title also used for the rulers of the North was the "Kings of Winter". House Stark rules the North as its monarchs as they have been for thousands of years before Aegon's Conquest.
The ancient crown of the King in the North
House Stark ruled as Kings in the North stretching back into the mists of time, before written history began six thousand years ago, when the Andals invaded all of southern Westeros. When the Andals arrived, the Stark Kings in the North were already ruling at Winterfell. According to legend, the first King in the North was Brandon Stark, better known as Bran the Builder, who lived eight thousand years ago. According to the legends, he led the forces of the North in the War for the Dawn against the White Walkers and built the Wall to guard against their return, and also began construction of Winterfell. The Kings in the North were successfully able to fend off the Andals from invading, holding the line of the Neck at the choke point of Moat Cailin. As a result, the North remained the only independent kingdom of the First Men, with little to no ethnic imprint by the Andals. This also meant that the Faith of the Seven practiced by the Andals gained little foothold in the North, where the Kings of Winter continued their worship of the Old Gods of the Forest.
Although all the kings of Westeros sent men to join the Night's Watch, the Kings in the North, due to their proximity to the Wall, had the duty of policing the Watch when needed. In this capacity, they executed deserters, intervened in disputes amongst commanders, and even on some occasions dealt with threats that somehow slipped past the Wall.
King Torrhen submits to King Aegon I.
During the War of Conquest, by the time King Torrhen Stark gathered his armies to challenge the invaders, Aegon the Conqueror had already won the decisive Field of Fire and conquered most of southern Westeros. Seeing that the war was already lost and that the Northern armies had no hope of driving back Aegon's armies and his dragons, Torrhen wisely chose to spare his people by bending the knee, although it earned him the derisive nickname "the king who knelt". In return for Torrhen's submission, Aegon allowed House Stark to continue ruling the North as they had for thousands of years, but as vassals of the Iron Throne. They held the titles of Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North. The Starks thus retained their ancient positions and traditions, including their duties policing the Night's Watch.
Three centuries later, House Stark was amongst the rebel houses during Robert's Rebellion, in which the Targaryen dynasty was deposed and Robert crowned as the new king. The Starks were actually the primary wounded party of the events leading up to the rebellion: Lyanna Stark was allegedly kidnapped by Rhaegar Targaryen, while her father Rickard and brother Brandon were brutally murdered on trumped-up charges of treason by King Aerys.
After the war, House Stark continued to faithfully serve the crown, as King Robert of House Baratheon was one of their closest friends, although they rarely attended court in King's Landing.
During the opening stages of the War of the Five Kings, Lord Robb Stark was proclaimed as the new King in the North by his bannermen, the first in 300 years. Outraged by the imprisonment and then wanton execution of Robb's father Eddard by Robert's successor Joffrey Baratheon, the noble lords of the North openly rebelled against the Iron Throne. Joffrey had brashly intended to shock the North into submission by executing Ned Stark, but instead, this drove the Northern lords to their decision that they would never submit to Joffrey, no matter the odds against them. At a council of Robb's bannermen, some were undecided about whether they should support the rival claims to the throne by Robert's younger brothers, Stannis Baratheon or even Renly Baratheon.
Robb Stark is proclaimed "King in the North" by the lords of the North and Riverlands.
Greatjon Umber, who was tired of being ruled by southern lords thousands of miles away, pointed out that it was the Dragon-Kings of House Targaryen that the North had submitted to, but now they were dead. Robert Baratheon had been their ally, but now he was dead too, and his younger brothers meant nothing to him. Meanwhile, the truth of Joffrey's origins are being circulated, as Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen are not Robert's children nor of Baratheon blood, but the illegitimate offspring of Cersei and Jaime Lannister with no claim to the Baratheon line. At the council, Lord Umber declared that there is only one king he would ever serve, the King in the North. Rickard Karstark, Maege Mormont, Galbart Glover, and Jonos Bracken, a local riverlord, were among those who swore fealty to Robb, as did Theon Greyjoy. The call was then taken up by all of Robb's bannermen, chanting "the King in the North!" Soon after being declared King in the North by acclamation of his bannermen, King Robb sent a formal declaration of independence to the Queen Regent, Cersei Lannister, proclaiming that "from this time until the end of time we are a free and independent kingdom."
Robb was declared king by not just the northern lords, but also several of the lords of the Riverlands, as the Starks had come to relieve the Riverlands from an invasion by the Lannisters. Also, Robb's mother is Catelyn Tully, daughter of Hoster Tully, the lord of Riverrun, and thus Robb is by rights a blood relation of House Tully, the liege lords of the Riverlands. Therefore, King Robb's claimed kingdom includes both the North and the Riverlands. However, in practice, during the course of the War of the Five Kings, Robb's forces only maintain firm control of the Riverlands north of the River Trident, particularly around the regional capital of Riverrun. All of the Riverlands south of here, between the Red Fork of the Trident and the Gods Eye, are a warzone between Lannister and Stark forces.
The "Kingdom of the North" came to a temporary end after the Red Wedding when Roose Bolton, who conspired with House Frey and House Lannister, initiated a massacre of the northern army and personally stabbed Robb Stark through the heart. After that, he became the new Warden of the North as a reward by Tywin Lannister.
Jon Snow is declared King in the North.
However, the "Kingdom of the North" was reestablished after a short few years under Bolton rule, when the Starks led by Jon Snow and Sansa Stark later gathered an army of Northern Houses still loyal to House Stark, the Free Folk, and the Knights of the Vale and retook Winterfell from the Boltons. With the Boltons defeated, Jon Snow was proclaimed the new King in the North, reasserting the North's independence from the Iron Throne, this time allied with the Vale of Arryn - whose ruler, Robin Arryn, is also a grandson of Hoster Tully - instead of the Riverlands, which had recently been completely dominated by the Lannisters and Freys due to their victory at the Second Siege of Riverrun. However, Walder Frey and all of his sons were secretly massacred shortly afterward by Arya Stark in retaliation for their roles in the Red Wedding, severely weakening the Freys' hold on the Riverlands.
In order to gain her full support in the Great War, Jon bent the knee to Queen Daenerys Targaryen, renouncing his title as king and reintegrating the North and the Vale into the Seven Kingdoms once they defeat the White Walkers, and House Targaryen reascends to the Iron Throne. However, Bran Stark and Samwell Tarly, with the help of Gilly, have discovered that "Jon" is in fact the legitimate son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark, with his real name being Aegon Targaryen. Being the son of Rhaegar puts him ahead of Daenerys in the line of succession to the Iron Throne.
After the death of Daenerys Targaryen, Sansa Stark declared independence from the Iron Throne and thus the "Kingdom in the North" was reestablished once again. While her brother Bran Stark ruled the Six Kingdoms, Sansa became the new Queen in the North.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the monarchs of the Stark proto-kingdom centered around Winterfell itself called themselves the "Kings of Winter", back when the North was divided into over a dozen petty kingdoms. Gradually, the Kings of Winter extended their hegemony over these other petty kingdoms, eliminating them or absorbing them through marriage, and uniting them from time to time in alliance to throw back wildling invasions, etc. Their greatest rivals were the Red Kings of House Bolton, whose kingdom was centered around the Dreadfort on the eastern shore. The Starks finally subdued the Boltons and unified the North just around the time that the Coming of the Andals began, about 6,000 years ago. As a sign of their new control over the entire region, they gradually shifted from calling themselves "Kings of Winter" to calling themselves "Kings in the North" around this time (the phrasing is always "King in the North", never "King of the North"). They were still sometimes also colloquially called the "Kings of Winter" up until the Targaryen Conquest.
According to myth, the first King of Winter was Bran the Builder, the great lord who built Winterfell, the Wall, and founded the Night's Watch following the defeat of the White Walkers at the Battle for the Dawn. The King in the North held all the lands of the North south to the Neck, where the ancient fortress of Moat Cailin threw back every invasion attempt by the southern kingdoms and, later, the Andals.
Before Robb Stark, the last King in the North was Torrhen Stark. During the invasion of Aegon the Conqueror, Torrhen led a great host to the banks of the Red Fork of the Trident, meaning to give battle, but after hearing tales of the Field of Fire and upon seeing the size of Aegon's host and the presence of his dragons, Torrhen realized his cause was hopeless. Instead, he knelt and swore fealty to Aegon. Aegon acknowledged him and House Stark as the rulers of the North in the name of the Iron Throne.
Many kings are mentioned in the final chapter of "A Clash of Kings", among them: Edwyn the Spring King, Brandon the Burner, Brandon the Shipwright, Benjen the Bitter, Benjen the Sweet, and Theon Stark.
They had a crown that was lost to Aegon the Conqueror. In "A Clash of Kings", Robb Stark has a new one made, matching the old one to a very precise description: an open circlet of bronze with no gemstones, topped by a row of nine black iron spikes shaped like longswords. The crown was made of only simple iron and bronze because they are the metals of war.
As of the latest published book, "A Dance With Dragons", Jon Snow's chapters end in the mutiny against him at Castle Black and as such, it is currently unknown if he will become the King in the North in future books. While it is revealed that Jon is Robb's chosen successor (prior to his death, Robb signed a royal decree that made Jon his heir), Jon remains unaware of this position and his fate after the mutiny is uncertain.
Lord Ramsay Bolton, born Ramsay Snow, was the legitimized bastard son of Roose Bolton, Lord of the Dreadfort, and the unidentified wife of a miller.
During the War of the Five Kings, Ramsay is initially loyal to King in the North Robb Stark, retaking Winterfell from Theon Greyjoy on his orders but at the same time sacking the castle as part of his father's scheme to betray House Stark. Following the successful capture of Winterfell from the Ironborn, Ramsay holds Theon captive and utilizes extreme torture to break him into loyal submission; renaming him "Reek." Following Robb's murder and the decimation of the Stark-loyal northern army at the Red Wedding, he follows his father in pledging allegiance to House Lannister and is legitimized as Ramsay Bolton. Through an arrangement orchestrated by Petyr Baelish, Ramsay is wed to Sansa Stark, who escapes from Winterfell along with Theon. Their escape drives Ramsay to murder his entire family on threat of being disinherited, he then becomes the new Warden of the North and Lord of Winterfell, replacing his father. Ramsay's rule over the North, however, comes to an end when Jon Snow retakes Winterfell with army of Free Folk and Stark loyalists. Ramsay is subsequently executed for his crimes, rendering House Bolton extinct and restoring House Stark as the ruling family of the North.
Ramsay Snow is Lord Roose Bolton's bastard son and the product of rape. Years ago, Roose discovered that a miller had wed without his permission. He had the miller hanged and violently raped his wife under the tree where the miller was hung. Ramsay was born shortly afterwards, and his mother brought him to the Dreadfort, his father's castle, for Roose to acknowledge as his son. Roose very nearly killed Ramsay and almost had his mother whipped, but relented upon realizing that the child was indeed his.
Ramsay is Roose's only child, as well as the only possible heir to House Bolton until the birth of a child by Roose's new wife, Fat Walda Frey. He stays behind as castellan of the Dreadfort when his father left for the south to fight in the War of the Five Kings.
Ramsay keeps a pack of dogs, which he employs for hunting. He is also in a relationship with the kennelmaster's daughter, Myranda; he claims that he planned to marry her before his father ultimately had him legitimized, but it is a questionable statement.
After Winterfell is seized by Theon Greyjoy for the ironborn, Ramsay is dispatched by his father Roose Bolton to re-take it in the name of King Robb Stark. Ramsay's forces besiege the castle and he infuriates Theon by blowing a horn all through the night. The following morning, Theon rallies his men to defend the castle, but he is betrayed and knocked out cold by his men, who accept Robb Stark's offer of mercy for the ironborn garrison if they surrender and hand over Theon. However, the castle is sacked by Ramsay afterwards and instead of letting the ironborn walk free, he flays them alive.
Ramsay watches Theon's torture while disguised as a servant boy.
Following the Sack of Winterfell, Ramsay and his men take Theon to the Dreadfort, where the ironborn prince is subjected to gruesome tortures. Embarking on a twisted campaign of psychological manipulation, Ramsay poses as an ironborn emissary of Theon's sister, Yara, and falsely claims to have been sent by her to liberate him.
Ramsay sends a false report to Harrenhal, where the main force of the Northern army has established, of the sacking of Winterfell by the ironborn, of the disappearance of Bran and Rickon Stark, and that the location of Theon Greyjoy is unknown.
Later that evening Ramsay returns, and releases Theon, provides him with a horse and tells him to ride east to Deepwood Motte, where his sister is waiting for him. Theon's captors, however, track him down and capture him again. As punishment, their leader attempts to rape Theon. Ramsay appears and swiftly dispatches the kidnappers with bow and arrow, deepening the bond of trust between them. The leader calls Ramsay a "little bastard," hinting his true identity.
Ramsay reveals his true colors.
Afterward, Ramsay promises Theon to take him to Deepwood Motte. Some time later the men reach a holdfast; Theon questions having to sneak inside since Yara's men are loyal to her. Ramsay warns Theon that some of the men belong to his father Balon. As the mysterious boy struggles to open a locked gate, Theon confesses his jealousy of Robb's status, the murder of the two boys he passed off as Bran and Rickon, and acknowledges that Eddard Stark was his true father. After opening the gate, Theon and Ramsay enter a darkened room. The young man lights a torch and Theon, much to his horror, realizes he is back in the torture chamber. They are soon joined by two men, who proceed to restrain Theon after Ramsay falsely claims he killed their comrades. Kicking and screaming, Theon is refastened to the rack, as Ramsay drops his facade, grins sadistically and tells the men to put Theon "back where he belongs."
Ramsay torments Theon.
Ramsay awakens Theon with a horn to continue torturing him. He threatens to remove Theon's pinky finger if he cannot guess Ramsay's true identity and their current location. After several guesses, Ramsay tells Theon he is correct in guessing that Ramsay is Harrion Karstark, the brother of Torrhen Karstark and the son of Lord Rickard Karstark, and that they are in Karhold (Theon being unaware that both Rickard and Harrion are dead). However he then points out that Theon never asked if he was a liar. He admits that he was lying and that he's only torturing Theon for his own enjoyment, and begins flaying Theon's finger while his victim screams for him to cut it off.
Theon is freed from his constraints by two young women, Myranda and Violet. They give him water and clean his wounds. Theon is apprehensive about their aid, until they disrobe and begin pleasuring him. The three are soon interrupted by Ramsay, who enters the chamber wielding a knife. After taunting Theon about his sexual prowess, he orders his men to restrain Theon and then removes Theon's penis.
Ramsay renames Theon "Reek."
Ramsay admits that the rumors about Theon were true, and that he did have a "good-sized cock", motioning towards Theon's blood-stained, badly-sewn up britches before momentarily tricking him into believing that the pork sausage he is eating is his penis. Ramsay talks about amputees having phantom limbs and wonders if Theon will have a phantom penis, feeling an itch whenever he sees naked girls. When Theon begs to be killed, Ramsay states that he is no good to him dead. Ramsay decides to give Theon a new name, and beats him until he starts calling himself "Reek." Ramsay also sends a letter to Balon Greyjoy with a box containing Theon's penis. He threatens to send more of Theon's body parts and flay every ironborn in the North alive if they have not left by the full moon.
Ramsay and Myranda hunting Tansy.
Ramsay frees Theon from his restraints, but forces him to work for him as a servant and answer to the name "Reek." Some time later, Ramsay hunts a girl named Tansy in the woods with his hounds, Myranda, and Reek. With bows in hand, he and Myranda gleefully pursue Tansy, firing arrows at her as they go. Ramsay explains that Tansy had made Myranda jealous, so she has to go because she causes too many problems otherwise. Myranda manages to strike Tansy with an arrow in the leg before Ramsay happily releases his dogs on her, killing her. Shortly afterward, Lord Roose Bolton arrives at the Dreadfort where Ramsay waits for him. Roose introduces Ramsay to his newly acquired wife, Walda Bolton, and asks to see his captive. Ramsay also greets Locke and congratulates him for his mutilation of Jaime Lannister. Locke assures him that the Kingslayer had screamed loudly enough that Ramsay would have enjoyed it.
Ramsay demonstrates Reek's new submissiveness to his father.
Ramsay brings "Reek" to his father, who quickly becomes furious with Ramsay for torturing and mutilating a valuable hostage. Roose explains that he wanted to use Theon as a bargaining chip to rid the North of Iron Islanders, and for that he needed him unharmed. Roose chastises Ramsay for his actions, and laments placing too much trust in him. Ramsay tries to prove that his torture had a purpose. He orders Reek to shave him with a razor, demonstrating that he will never betray them, and adds that his method revealed key information; that Theon did not kill Bran and Rickon Stark. Reek also tells them that their half-brother Jon Snow may be sheltering them at the Wall. Finding it enlightening, Roose sends Locke after the Stark boys, and Ramsay suggests that they kill Jon as well, since he is half-Stark and may pose a threat to their future hold on the North. Roose orders Ramsay to take Moat Cailin, a vital base in the North, from the Greyjoy forces, and promises that if he succeeds, he will reconsider Ramsay's position.
Ramsay taunts Yara as she tries to rescue Theon.
Ramsay engages in particularly violent sex with Myranda, forcing her to strangle him as they both climax. Meanwhile Yara Greyjoy, intent on rescuing her brother Theon from Ramsay's clutches, leads a force of fifty ironborn reavers in rowing boats up the Weeping Water towards the Dreadfort. They manage to enter the castle and find Theon in a kennel alongside the dogs, but he refuses to go, fearing that this is another one of Ramsay's cruel tricks. Ramsay soon arrives and drives the ironborn from the Dreadfort with his soldiers. When an ironborn asks if they are leaving without her brother, Yara declares her brother to be dead. Later, Ramsay rewards Reek with a bath for his loyalty. When Reek undresses, Ramsay smiles when he notices his victim's missing genitals. Ramsay gently washes Reek while asking his captive whether he loves him, which Reek confirms. He continues by instructing Reek that he has to pretend to be someone he is not: Theon Greyjoy.
Ramsay enlists Reek's help in taking Moat Cailin.
Ramsay besieges Moat Cailin and sends Reek to treat with the ironborn garrison, posing as Theon Greyjoy. Theon vouches for Ramsay's promise of safe passage back to the Iron Islands if they surrender. The ironborn surrender, and Ramsay instead flays them all alive. Having taken Moat Cailin, Ramsay and his father meet on an open field. Roose hands him a document legitimizing his bastard son and granting him the right to call himself "Bolton." Ramsay is delighted, and they then make their way towards Winterfell.
The Boltons await the arrival of Sansa Stark.
While eating with his father, Ramsay tells him that he managed to "persuade" House Cerwyn, one of House Stark's vassals, to pay their taxes by flaying Lord Medger Cerwyn, his wife and older brother alive, and coercing their son, Cley, to pay in their stead. Finally out of patience with his son, Roose scolds Ramsay for his actions, because since Tywin Lannister is dead, the Lannisters will no longer support them and they will not be able to hold the North with terror alone, since the Northern Houses will eventually rise up against them at the slightest excuse. Roose then reveals that he has arranged for Ramsay to marry Sansa Stark to placate the Northerners. When Sansa arrives, Ramsay greets her with politeness. Later, Petyr Baelish speaks with Ramsay, who promises never to harm Sansa after Baelish subtly warns him against it. As Ramsay takes his leave, he expresses his gratitude to Baelish for finding him a suitable match.
Later, Myranda tells Ramsay of her jealousy for Sansa, since Ramsay had previously promised to marry her while he was still a bastard. Ramsay coldly admits his attraction to Sansa and openly states his opinion of her beauty, and becomes angry when Myranda threatens to marry someone else and leave him. Ramsay approaches Myranda and reminds her of what he does to people who bore him. He forces himself on Myranda. She bites his lip hard, but then reciprocates. Ramsay later confronts Reek about his encounter with Sansa, and warns him not to keep secrets from him again. Though he seems like he will punish Reek, he ultimately forgives him.
Ramsay disgraces himself at dinner.
At dinner, Ramsay initially expresses delight at his wedding to Sansa, but things turn sour when he brings Reek into the room and coerces him into apologizing to Sansa for allegedly killing Bran and Rickon, and suggests that Reek should give Sansa away at their wedding. Roose puts a stop to his son's behavior by announcing that Walda is pregnant with a boy. Ramsay's expression turns angry, as he sees Roose and Walda's child as a potential threat to his position as his father's heir.
Ramsay promises to help his father counter Stannis.
After dinner, Ramsay expresses his distress at the possibility of the unborn child jeopardizing his claim on the North to his father, who reprimands him for his behavior earlier but scoffs at his worry. He then regales Ramsay with the tale of how he met his mother, a miller's wife who had married without Roose's knowledge or consent. Roose had the miller hanged and raped his wife beneath his swaying corpse, even though she fought him the whole time. Sometime later, the miller's wife came to the Dreadfort and left the infant Ramsay with him. Roose had been prepared to throw Ramsay into the Weeping Water to drown, but stayed himself because he knew, deep down, that Ramsay is his son. Roose then states that Stannis Baratheon is at Castle Black and will likely attempt to take Winterfell from them during his journey to King's Landing, and Ramsay promises to help his father counter Stannis.
Ramsay and Sansa on their wedding night.
Later, when Reek comes to fetch Sansa for the wedding, she refuses to hold Reek’s arm, even after he pleads her to, saying that Ramsay will punish him if she doesn’t. Reek then gives Sansa away to Ramsay, and they wed in front of the Godswood. After retreating to the bedroom, Ramsay tells Sansa to take her clothes off. Reek is about to leave but Ramsay tells him he must stay. Ramsay quips to Reek:, "You grew up with her as a girl, now watch her become a woman." Annoyed by Sansa's hesitance, he angrily rips open the back of her dress and pushes her face-down over the side of the bed. As he unbuckles his clothes, Sansa obediently remains still but begins crying softly. Reek is visibly distraught and begins silently crying himself as Ramsay proceeds to rape her, and though he is still too weak to intervene, a flash of anger briefly spreads across Reek's face as this is going on.
Ramsay forces Sansa to look upon the corpse of the flayed old woman.
Over the next few days, Ramsay continues to force himself on Sansa every night. He is informed by a reluctant Reek of Sansa's plan to escape by signalling Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne to come and rescue her, and retaliates by flaying Sansa's elderly maid who delivered Brienne's message to her. Ramsay forces Sansa to look at the corpse, and walks with her across Winterfell, boasting about how he will succeed his father as Warden of the North and she will be his Wardeness, but Sansa counters that Roose is expecting a boy with Walda, a boy who may be Ramsay's baby brother but may still become Roose's true heir, since Ramsay is still technically a bastard, who was even legitimized by Tommen Baratheon, who Sansa claims is also a bastard. Ramsay, visibly angered, counters that even bastards can rise, like her half-brother Jon Snow did when he became the new Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, and taunts Sansa for not knowing the news about Jon's new title. He then orders Sansa taken back to her chambers and locked up again.
As Stannis approaches Winterfell, Ramsay is present at a council meeting on how to counter him. While Roose suggests that they wait out the siege inside Winterfell and allow Stannis and his army to die in the cold, or even for Stannis's men to mutiny against him, Ramsay advocates taking twenty of his best men to face Stannis in the open, on the basis that Stannis will not leave the North so easily, and they need to show the rest of the North how they will deal with Southern invaders.
Ramsay takes his men into Stannis's camp and they torch some of his tents, severely depleting Stannis's men and resources, and manage to flee back to Winterfell without being spotted.
Ramsay and his men finish off the remaining soldiers.
However, Stannis remains undaunted. Though his numbers are greatly reduced, he leads a siege to Winterfell. Ramsay, however, leads the Bolton forces into battle and massacres Stannis's men, sustaining minor cuts to the face in the process. In the aftermath, Ramsay slays a half-dead man, despite his claims of surrender. Having defeated Stannis, he heads back to Winterfell, saying "my wife must be lonely", unaware that Sansa and Reek have escaped from the castle, and the latter has killed Myranda.
Having discovered Myranda's body and Sansa and Reek's escape, Ramsay mourns Myranda in his chamber, reminiscing with her corpse. Even when they met as children, Myranda showed him no fear, a singular attribute among those who knew him that he attributes to her tolerance of the even more fearsome dogs. Ramsay promises the deceased Myranda that her pain will be paid for, many times over, and seems sincere when he voices regret that she will not be there to witness his retribution for her. When Maester Wolkan interrupts, however, asking what to do with the body, Ramsay abruptly changes his mood as if his emotions were an act, angrily stating that she's "good meat", and orders Wolkan to feed her to the hounds. Later, while speaking with his father, Ramsay is congratulated for his victory over Stannis but chastised for allowing Sansa and Theon to escape. Ramsay claims he has sent men and hounds to find them, but Roose counters that if Sansa does manage to escape from the North, he will disinherit Ramsay in favor of his unborn son with Walda, leaving Ramsay visibly shaken.
Ramsay seizes power in the North by murdering his father.
Harald Karstark later arrives at Winterfell to notify Ramsay and Roose that Theon and Sansa have disappeared. Ramsay suggests that they march on the Wall, kill Jon and retrieve Sansa, a suggestion Roose immediately dismisses on the basis that Jon is a bastard. Roose argues against Ramsay's plan on the grounds that killing the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch would only further alienate the rest of the Northern houses, many of which are still angry with the Boltons for their part in the Red Wedding. Maester Wolkan announces that Walda has given birth to a baby boy. Roose calms him by promising him that he will always be his firstborn, but Ramsay stabs his father in the chest, killing him instantly. Ramsay orders Wolkan to announce that Roose was poisoned by their enemies, and to bring Walda and the baby to him. After glimpsing his new half-brother in the Winterfell courtyard, Ramsay leads Walda and his half-brother to the kennels and shuts the doors, setting the hounds to maul them to death.
Later, Ramsay is approached by Lord Smalljon Umber, who asks for House Bolton's support in fighting Jon Snow and the Wildlings, as Last Hearth is the northernmost castle in the North. Ramsay agrees on the condition that Umber pledge fealty and kneel before him. The Smalljon refuses both times, instead bringing Ramsay a gift in the form of a captured Osha and Rickon Stark. Upon seeing Shaggydog's head as proof of Rickon's identity, Ramsay welcomes the youngest Stark home.
Ramsay after murdering Osha.
Ramsay later has Osha brought to him, and asks her about her involvement with House Stark. Osha pretends to have been a slave and says that she carried around Rickon to find a buyer for him. She also tries to seduce Ramsay, but it is only a ruse to get him distracted and kill him with the knife that is on the table next to him. As Osha lies on his lap, Ramsay reveals that Theon had told him how she helped the Stark boys escape. Osha rushes for the knife, but Ramsay takes another one out from his holster and stabs her in the neck. Osha falls to the floor and bleeds to death as Ramsay cleans the blade and watches in amusement, returning to peeling his apple with the same knife used to kill her.
Heeding his father's cautious words about outright attacking the Night's Watch, Ramsay sends a letter to Jon Snow at Castle Black, where he rightly assumes Sansa is currently at. He demands that Jon return Sansa to Winterfell, or he will kill every wildling who survived the Massacre at Hardhome, let his men rape Sansa, and maim and kill Jon and Rickon should he refuse. Tormund, now the de facto leader of the Wildlings, says there are only 2,000 fighters among the Wildlings, not enough to face the 5,000 soldiers of House Bolton. Jon and Sansa decide to try to unite the houses of the North against the Boltons, as Jon is the son of a legitimate Warden of the North. Together with Tormund, they start planning to expel House Bolton from Winterfell and restore House Stark's hold on the North.
Ramsay meets Jon Snow for the first time.
Ramsay, Smalljon, and Harald meet with Jon, Sansa, Tormund, Davos Seaworth and Lyanna Mormont to reach a peaceful solution before they battle. Ramsay offers surrender terms, saying he will pardon Jon and his supporters for opposing him if he bends the knee and hands Sansa over. Jon offers Ramsay a chance to settle their dispute in one-on-one combat but Ramsay refuses, citing that Jon would possibly beat him but his army will easily smash Jon's army. Jon owes that Ramsay has the numbers but wonders if his men will want to fight for him when he won't fight for them, which visibly vexes Ramsay. He then asks Jon and Sansa if they will let Rickon die because they are too proud to surrender. When Sansa asks for proof of Rickon's capture, Ramsay has Smalljon throw the decapitated head of her brother's direwolf, Shaggydog, at her feet. As Ramsay begins to tell her what to do if she wants to save Rickon, Sansa cuts him off and tells him that he is going to die the next day, bidding him to sleep well before riding off. Ramsay threatens Jon and his supporters, claiming that his hounds have not been fed in seven days, before returning to Winterfell.
Ramsay frees the captive Rickon only to shoot him with an arrow shortly afterwards.
The next day, as the battle begins, Ramsay arrives holding the captive Rickon. He sets him free, and commands Rickon to run across the battlefield towards Jon. When Rickon starts running, Ramsay begins firing arrows at him, each coming dangerously close to hitting their mark. Jon immediately mounts his horse to rescue Rickon, but Ramsay shoots him dead with an arrow as he is inches away from Jon's reach. With Jon now defenseless in the middle of the battlefield, Bolton archers fire volleys of arrows in his direction with the Bolton cavalry charging at him as well. The Stark cavalry begin their charge to meet the Bolton cavalry, narrowly saving Jon from being trampled to death and forcing them to abandon their initial battle plan. Ramsay executes a pincer movement with his infantry, completely encircling the Stark/Wildling army.
Ramsay's army faces off against Jon Snow's army as the Battle of the Bastards begins.
Ramsay is beaten by Jon Snow.
As the Bolton army closes in, Petyr Baelish and Sansa arrive with reinforcements courtesy of House Arryn. Dumbfounded and furious, Ramsay meets his gaze with Sansa's as their cavalry quickly flanks the encircling Bolton army, which is demolished. Still dumbfounded, Ramsay looks on; locking eyes with Jon. Now outnumbered, Ramsay retreats with his remaining allies while closely pursued by Jon, Tormund, and the giant Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun, and closes the gates, confident in their ability to withstand siege, and readies his archers. To Ramsay's horror, however, Winterfell's gates are breached thanks to Wun Wun, and the remaining Bolton forces are wiped out one by one, although Wun Wun is incapacitated by injuries sustained by Bolton archers. Jon attempts to comfort the giant but Ramsay ultimately delivers the killing blow by shooting an arrow in Wun Wun's eye. Having nowhere else to go and exhausted all his forces, he finally accepts Jon's offer to fight him one-on-one, choosing a bow and arrow as his weapon. Jon grabs a fallen Mormont soldier's shield as Ramsay fires an arrow, which Jon blocks. Ramsay fires two more, both blocked, becoming more and more uneasy as Jon gets closer to him. As Ramsay prepares a fourth arrow, Jon smacks the bow out of his hands and strikes him with the shield with enough force to send him down. Before Ramsay can stand up, Jon pounces on him and proceeds to savagely beat Ramsay to a bloody pulp, severely disfiguring his face. Ramsay, however, does not fight back, instead smirking throughout the whole ordeal. Jon stops beating Ramsay when he notices Sansa and acknowledges that she has more right to revenge than he does. Jon spares Ramsay, but orders him locked up in the kennels as a prisoner.
Ramsay, moments before his death.
At nightfall, Ramsay, battered and only barely conscious, is accosted by Sansa. He goads her by telling her that she will never be rid of him because he is "part of [her] now." In response, Sansa tells him that he will soon be forgotten, and his House will cease to exist before an ominous growl from one of his hounds, who by his own admission have not been fed for seven days, reveals his impending doom. Despite his confidence that they will never harm him, Ramsay quickly loses his composure and desperately attempts to order them to heel as they sniff at him hungrily and one tastes the blood from his face. The hounds suddenly begin to devour Ramsay, who is only able to physically scream until his mouth and throat are torn apart alongside the rest of him and he is killed.
With Ramsay's death, the Starks finally retake control of Winterfell and the North, and avenge the death of Rickon and the part House Bolton played in the Red Wedding — Ramsay himself hastened the destruction of his house by murdering the rest of his kin — leaving the bane of the North completely extinct and bringing a permanent end to the ancient feud between the Starks and the Boltons.
To Sansa's surprise, Bran is able to recount Sansa's wedding night with Ramsay, much to her distress.
Ramsay demonstrates his savagery in the face of ironborn warriors.
Ramsay is a genuine sociopath. He seems to be the personification of pure evil, with no redeemable features. He is dishonorable, manipulative, ruthless, extremely sadistic, sexually depraved, wild, and completely capable of committing unspeakable atrocities without remorse, simply for pure amusement. Ramsay fully admits—and indeed revels in the fact—that he tortures and kills innocent people for no reason whatsoever, and that they did not deserve what he did to them. He simply enjoys inflicting horrific torture on people. His sadism far surpasses even Joffrey Baratheon's. While Joffrey was sadistic, he preferred a passive role, watching others be hurt for his amusement. Ramsay, on the other hand, relishes the thought of inflicting as much pain and degradation as possible.
Whenever he has the advantage in a skirmish, Ramsay is fearless—almost a beast in human skin—reveling in the violence of personal combat. This is the polar opposite of Joffrey Baratheon's cowardice. Ramsay did not rave and rage, however, he had a perverse, playful, childlike giddiness as he inflicts pain on others, from flaying men alive, to hunting and killing girls for sport. This behavior, however, was not displayed when Jon Snow proposes that the two of them fight one-on-one rather than send thousands to their deaths to determine who holds sway over the North. Ramsay scoffs at the idea due to his initial numerical superiority, and also strikes anger in Jon and Sansa's hearts by having Smalljon Umber drop Shaggydog's head in front of them to display his power over them - both mentally and physically. Only when Jon and his allies breach Winterfell thanks to the arrival of the knights of the Vale, does Ramsay reconsider fighting one-on-one against him, choosing a bow and arrows as his weapon but only because he knew he would be quickly killed if he chose to attack the surrounding soldiers whereas he had a better chance of surviving by fighting Jon one-on-one.
In his own twisted way Ramsay was quite intelligent, possessing a certain "low cunning" with which he tricked his enemies. He was particularly good at thinking on his feet, but reckless when it came to long-term consequences and intricate politics. Ramsay deeply enjoyed playing mind games with his enemies using psychological torture, often tricking them into trusting him only to then break his empty promises. A good display of Ramsay's deceitful nature was when while playing a "game" with Theon Greyjoy to guess where Theon was, who Ramsay was, and why Theon was being tortured, he allowed him to believe his guesses were correct until he pointed out that Theon "forgot to ask if he was a liar" and continued to flay his finger anyway. Another instance is using Rickon Stark as bait to "trap" Jon in the middle of the battlefield at the Battle of the Bastards, knowing that his caring nature would leave him defenseless to Bolton arrows.
On the other hand, Ramsay is very impulsive, not fully considering the long-term consequences of his actions much to his father's chagrin. When Lord Medger Cerwyn refuses to pay Ramsay taxes or even acknowledge Bolton rule, Ramsay flays Cerwyn alive along with his wife and brother while forcing his son to watch, and puts the corpses on public display. Roose angrily warns his son that this disproportionate brutality is severely damaging their long-term position but Ramsay largely ignores his warnings, instead privately holding a massive feast for himself even as other lords are worried about stockpiling provisions for the winter. In addition, he kills his father, stepmother, and half-brother for his own gain even though he has yet to produce an heir, a selfish, short-sighted, downright stupid action that eventually dooms House Bolton.
Ramsay is greatly frustrated by his bastard status, and was easily angered when he was referred to in such a way. A possible source of this resentment was his jealousy of Jon Snow, another Northern bastard son who was raised by his father, Ned Stark, alongside his trueborn sons and eventually rose to become Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, and as such, Ramsay desired to rise to a powerful political position as Jon did, which he himself states to Sansa by comparing himself to Jon. Ramsay's jealousy of Jon was so great that he expressed a willingness to kill Jon if the chance came, though at the same time he appears fearful when he hears that Jon may come after him with a wildling army. Due to his immense insecurities about his baseborn status, Ramsay makes it a point to mock and belittle Jon for being a bastard—continuously referring to him as "bastard" in both a letter he sends to him at Castle Black, and in person when they finally meet, despite the fact that Ramsay is no longer a bastard.
Due to having played mind games and tortured helpless and defenseless victims and getting away with it all his life, Ramsay is not used to the possibility of losing a confrontation. Even while being beaten almost to death by Jon, Ramsay smiles with confidence that somehow he will survive, and even displays this behavior when faced with his hungry hounds, who he staunchly believes will never harm him. However, when one of the dogs disobeys his commands to get off him and starts hungrily licking his face, Ramsay's commands get more desperate, and for the first and last time in his life, Ramsay shows genuine fear when he realizes he can't control them and won't survive after all.
Spoken by Ramsay
Spoken about Ramsay
Iwan Rheon's character was announced and then credited only as "Boy" in order to keep his true identity as Ramsay Snow a secret until "Mhysa." The only clue as to his identity was the manner in which Theon is fastened to the rack while Ramsay tortures him, identical to the symbol of House Bolton, representing a flayed man in an X-shape. Even though Ramsay did not appear prominently until A Dance with Dragons (he appears in A Clash of Kings, but disguised as a servant, Reek, until the final chapters), book readers would know immediately after dropping his façade in the TV series who he truly was. His posing as a servant boy to "help" Theon is an apparent nod to his "Reek" persona from A Clash of Kings.
During casting for Season 1, Rheon originally auditioned for the role of Jon Snow, but lost to Kit Harrington. Throughout the series, particularly A Dance with Dragons, Ramsay is portrayed as Jon's foil in many ways, given that Jon and Ramsay are both bastards of Northern noble families (Stark and Bolton, respectively), and are each other's polar opposites, as well as the Boltons once again becoming the sworn enemies of the Starks after the Red Wedding. On Jon and Ramsay's rivalry, Rheon claims, "Jon and Ramsay are literally the opposite to each other, you know. Jon's very noble and honorable, and Ramsay's none of those things."
During development of "Battle of the Bastards", Ramsay was originally meant to have his showdown with Jon (and be killed personally by him) in the midst of the battle itself, though David Benioff and D. B. Weiss thought it more appropriate for them to face off inside the Winterfell courtyard, since the battle was effectively between the Starks and Boltons for Winterfell itself. While shooting Jon and Ramsay's fight scene, Rheon was actually struck twice by Harington by accident: Harington first hit Rheon in the chin with a shield, and later punched him across the face. Though Rheon was not seriously hurt, Harington reportedly bought him a pint of beer as a sign of apology. In real life, despite having been seen onscreen together in only one episode of the entire series, Rheon and Harington are close friends. After the episode aired, Rheon admitted in an interview that since being cast as Ramsay, he had wanted to shoot a scene with Jon Snow, who Rheon cited as Ramsay's antithesis, while Harington praised Rheon's work on the series.
In the trailer for the fourth season, while shooting the sex scene between Ramsay and Myranda, Myranda is shown striking Ramsay as well as strangling him, but the striking was cut, and in a "Behind the scenes" video of the sixth season, Jon is shown double-axe-handling Ramsay as well as punching him, which was also cut.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ramsay Snow is Roose Bolton's bastard son. He is an ugly man which even splendorous garb cannot disguise. He is big boned and slope shouldered, with a fleshiness to him that suggests that later in life he will turn to fat. Ramsay is a sadistic sociopath and serial rapist and murderer. He is cruel, savage and wild, taking delight in torturing others. He is quite fond of the old Bolton custom of flaying their enemies alive.
Roose only acknowledged Ramsay in his teenage years, thus Ramsay spent a rough youth in poverty as the bastard son of a poor miller's widow, until he somehow found out about his parentage and insisted on claiming his "rights." The result is that—in contrast with Jon Snow, the bastard of Winterfell—Ramsay is a crude, almost half-feral savage who is uneducated and knows nothing about courtly behavior. When Ramsay does send (dictated) letters to his enemies, they are often extremely crass, unstructured, and blunt, laced with profanity and taunting threats, and with pieces of human skin enclosed. While the letter Ramsay sends to Balon in the Season 3 finale of the TV series is not present in the books, it closely matches his "writing style" from the novels.
One day, Ramsay’s mother appeared at Dreadfort to demand that Roose provide her a servant for Ramsay, who was growing up wild and unruly. He gave her one of his servants known as "Reek" for his stench. It was meant to be a cruel joke, but Reek and Ramsay became inseparable, and committed together savage atrocities. Roose himself has no idea if it was Ramsay who corrupted Reek, or the other way around.
Ironically, Ramsay actually somewhat seems to like his mother, and speaks highly of her—she is after all the one who convinced him to go to the Dreadfort to pursue his "rights", though she also found him wild and unruly. Moreover, Ramsay has actually convinced himself that Roose fell in love with his mother at first sight, and thinks of their union as a poetic romance. In reality, Roose raped the miller's wife on a whim, under the very tree he had her husband hanged from, and afterwards was casually disappointed that raping her wasn't as physically pleasurable as he'd thought it would be.
One of Ramsay's most monstrous hobbies is to have young women stripped naked and released into the Bolton forests, before hunting them with a pack of female feral dogs, that are deliberately trained to be vicious and mean-tempered. If the women do not give him good sport in the hunt, he punishes them by raping them, then flaying them alive. If the women give him good sport in the hunt, however, he will grant them the mercy of a quick death...after raping them first. He then flays their corpses. He names new female hunting dogs after the women who gave him the most enjoyable hunts before he killed them, as a warped way to "honor" them. The skins of his kills are brought back with him to the Dreadfort as gruesome trophies. The bodies of the women are fed to his dogs.
Ramsay is introduced in ​A Clash of Kings​, though his appearance in the TV series was pushed back until the third season. He is first mentioned by Lady Donella Hornwood who notes that he is massing troops at the Dreadfort. She sends him a message inquiring about his intentions, and he rudely answers that it is none of her business.
Following the deaths of Lady Hornwood's husband and son, Ramsay forces her to marry him and to sign a will that names him as her heir, so he can inherit her lands. He rapes her and locks her in a tower, and does not give her any food. When Ser Rodrik Cassel finally arrived to free her, it was too late—she starved to death, after gnawing off all of her fingers. As one of Ramsay's favorite torture tactics, he had flayed the skin off of all of the old woman's fingers, leaving her to bite them off as the only way to end the agony, after which in delirium from hunger she ate some. Ramsay later gleefully boasts about this accomplishment.
Ramsay and his servant "Reek" later caught a peasant girl and raped her to death. Reek continued even after the girl died. It is then that Ser Rodrik's men found them. Ramsay is supposedly killed, and Reek taken prisoner to Winterfell. Rodrik wished to put Reek to death, but needed him alive as a witness to many of Ramsay's crimes, hoping that after Roose Bolton heard his tale, he would abandon his claim for the Hornwood lands.
When Roose is informed about Ramsay's alleged death, he responds coldly "A fate he no doubt earned. Tainted blood is ever treacherous, and Ramsay's nature was sly, greedy, and cruel. I count myself well rid of him. The trueborn sons my young wife has promised me would never have been safe while he lived." Roose's last sentence, which he repeats in the fifth novel, is perhaps a foreshadowing of Ramsay's vile deeds in the show (which have not been performed in the books, at least not yet).
After Theon takes Winterfell, Reek offers to serve him if released from captivity. He becomes one of Theon's supposedly more trustworthy attendants, helping him hunt for Bran and Rickon. It is Reek who advises Theon to kill and flay two unnamed miller's sons to pass off as the Starks, and Theon accepts his advice. Afterwards, Theon orders Reek to secretly murder Gelmarr, Aggar, and Gynir for their knowledge of the truth, and he does. Since Theon needs a scapegoat, he falsely accuses Farlen the kennelmaster and executes him. Theon does not kill Reek, fearing that the blaggard hid a written account of what they had done.
After Rodrik defeats Dagmer Cleftjaw at Torrhen's Square, the Northmen march on Winterfell to liberate it. Theon refuses to give up the castle, using Beth Cassel as hostage to prevent Rodrik from attacking, and his men prepare to make a final stand. Reek offers to help Theon by taking a large sum of money to the Dreadfort and returning with much-needed reinforcements, asking for Palla in return. Theon does not trust Reek but reluctantly agrees, since he has no other choice. He promises to give Palla to Reek providing that he brings two hundred men.
When Northmen led by Rodrik Cassel surround Winterfell, an army of 600 men bearing the flayed man of House Bolton arrives, led by a mysterious armored captain. As Rodrik offers his hand in friendship, the captain cuts off his arm and the Bolton army attack the other Northmen and defeat them, suffering only minor casualties. They enter the castle and the captain presents Theon with the bodies of Rodrik, Leobald Tallhart, and Cley Cerwyn. He removes his helmet and reveals himself to be Reek, then reveals that he is in fact the real Ramsay Snow. He had switched clothes with the real Reek when Rodrik arrived to cheat death and get into Winterfell, while Reek was killed by Rodrik's men. He tells Theon that he would much enjoy the use of his bed-warmer Kyra instead of Palla, and when Theon refuses, Ramsay knocks him out. Ramsay and his men then put Winterfell to the torch and its people to the sword (among them Maester Luwin), as well as abducting Theon and killing almost all the other ironborn. Only Wex Pyke, Theon's mute servant, is neither killed nor taken captive, since he hides in the godswood. He follows Osha and Rickon, then goes to the White Harbor and tells Lord Wyman Manderly (using sign language) about Ramsay's deeds and where Osha and Rickon went.
In addition to Theon, Ramsay took two of Lord Frey's grandsons ("Big" Walder and "Little" Walder) who were being fostered at Winterfell, Kyra and six women of the castle staff, among them Palla, Old Nan, and Beth Cassel. The two Frey boys soon entered into Bolton service as Ramsay's squires, after the Freys and Boltons united to betray the Starks at the Red Wedding and switched allegiance to the Lannisters. As for the seven female captives: according to Lord Wyman Manderly (who has heard it from Wex), Ramsay roped them together and marched them to the Dreadfort. The books reveal explicitly only what he did to Kyra. The remaining six women are listed in the appendix of the fourth novel as being held captive in Dreadfort, and their fate is unknown; they have probably been molested and killed like Kyra and many of Ramsay's other female victims, but it is uncertain.
It is unclear from the books whether Ramsay contacted his father after Theon let him go, got orders from Roose to destroy Winterfell and followed them, or that he committed all the above actions on his own and only later reported what he had done to Roose, who had independently come to the same conclusion that the time was ripe to betray the Starks. Roose Bolton and the Freys lie about their reports from what happened at Winterfell. Lothar Frey and Walder Rivers inform Robb and Catelyn that they got a letter from Lord Frey's grandsons: Winterfell has been destroyed and Ser Rodrik was killed by the ironborn, but the survivors were taken to the Dreadfort by Ramsay. Lothar and Walder claim not to be sure of Theon's fate. When Roose reports Ramsay's actions to Robb (falsely making it sound as if Ramsay saved the day by driving the ironborn from Winterfell), Catelyn sharply reminds him that Ramsay has committed many vile crimes, among them murder and rape. Roose answers nonchalantly that after the war is over, Ramsay will be tried for his crimes, and maybe his deeds will atone for the crimes he committed—or not. He is not overly concerned of the possibility that Ramsay may be executed (particularly because he knows Robb will not live long enough to judge Ramsay).
Ramsay's torture and emasculation of Theon are not directly described in A Storm of Swords, but rather alluded to in A Dance with Dragons. Ramsay does not send a letter and a box containing Theon's genitals to Balon Greyjoy, the Greyjoys remaining oblivious to Theon's survival. Ramsay does send his father some skin flayed from Theon's finger, which Lord Bolton shows to Robb and Catelyn before the Red Wedding as proof that Theon is being punished for his betrayal. Ramsay sends a letter of warning to Asha, in which a piece of Theon's skin is enclosed, but that happens much later. Neither Asha nor any of the ironborn know what happened to Theon, believing him to be dead (though a few ironborn lords point out that his death was never confirmed). Arguably this is the only "sane" reason that Ramsay kept Theon alive, though the main reason was still that Ramsay took sadistic glee in unfairly inflicting torment on a random person. The succession laws in the newly independent Iron Islands are unclear, i.e. Asha/Yara feels that as the older sibling she is the heir, but according to the most common inheritance law in the Seven Kingdoms, as Balon's only surviving son Theon is the heir to the Iron Islands. Ramsay is not simply holding Theon hostage, as he has no intention of letting him leave alive and makes no attempt to contact the Greyjoys about his survival. Rather, Ramsay's goal was this very uncertainty: even if Theon were dead, the ironborn's line of succession would at least be clear, but not revealing the fate of Balon's heir generated confusion and dissent within their ranks. The TV version altered this, but still makes clear that Ramsay never offers hostage terms for Theon. In the TV version, Ramsay's plan is that slowly torturing Theon and mailing pieces of him to Pyke will eventually frighten the Greyjoys into withdrawing from the North.
Another possible reason for Ramsay's treatment of Theon is that Ramsay resents him for the time he served Theon in Winterfell, disguised as the original Reek. The fact that Theon treated Ramsay rather correctly and followed his vile advices (among them, killing the miller's sons to cover the escape of the Stark boys) makes no difference to Ramsay. In his eyes that servitude was humiliating, and it is his twisted way to pay Theon back by reversing the roles: now he is the master and Theon is Reek the servant.
Roose is very dissatisfied with several aspects of Ramsay's behavior:
Although Ramsay is noted as being a fierce fighter, he is undisciplined in warfare, lacking form or finesse, and is described as wielding his sword like a meat cleaver. Roose admits it is not entirely Ramsay's fault, it is because Reek (the original) was his only tutor, and Reek himself was never trained at arms. In the TV series, however, he is depicted as a deadly hunter and archer, easily dispatching six of his own men within seconds. According to Roose, Ramsay has deluded himself into believing that massacring unarmed prisoners (such as at Winterfell and Moat Cailin) makes him a skilled battlefield commander, when in fact he has never won a real battle. He also receives a long rebuke from his father for flaying alive unarmed men who surrendered Moat Cailin after Ramsay promised them safe passage home. Roose points out that Ramsay will never be trusted again, and the enemies of the Boltons will now fight to the death rather than surrender to them. In the books, Roose never speaks about Ramsay's conduct at Moat Cailin, nor about its long-range applications.
In the books, Ramsay is known for his ostentatious taste in clothes; garbing himself in velvet, silk, and satin, usually in the Bolton colors—pink and red. In the show, however, Ramsay's attire is considerably more subdued, in order to fit in with the established drab dress code for northern characters. That being said, the leather jerkin Ramsay wears in season four is, in fact, a very dark shade of reddish purple: a subtle reference to his literary counterpart.
Ramsay marries a fake Stark (actually Jeyne Poole, masquerading as Arya Stark instead of Sansa) also procured by Littlefinger, instead of Sansa Stark herself. In turn, Sansa is betrothed to Harrold Hardyng, Lord Robert Arryn's unlikely heir, instead of Ramsay. Ramsay subjects Jeyne to emotional and physical torture, even forcing Reek to take part. When Stannis Baratheon's army approaches, Ramsay prepares to lead a counterattack, but the actual battle has yet to be depicted.
Notably, Ramsay unwittingly serves as the true catalyst of the Mutiny at Castle Black. He apparently sends a letter to Jon Snow at Castle Black, boasting that he has killed Stannis and captured Mance Rayder (whose execution was faked and whom Jon sent to Winterfell to rescue Jeyne, believing it was Arya), but revealing that Jeyne and Theon have escaped. In the letter, Ramsay furiously demands that Jon return Jeyne and Theon to him, and hand over Selyse Baratheon, Shireen Baratheon, Melisandre, Val (Mance's sister-in-law) and several of Stannis's court to him as hostages, threatening that if Jon does not, he will march on the Wall and kill him. Finally pushed to his breaking point, Jon instead decides that he will head to Winterfell in order to confront and kill Ramsay himself, arguing that Ramsay violated the Night's Watch neutrality first by threatening to kill the Lord Commander. On his way out of Castle Black, however, he is confronted and stabbed by his own men, led by Bowen Marsh. Whether the contents of Ramsay's letter are entirely true or not remains to be seen, since Stannis was revealed to be alive in The Winds of Winter. The subplot of Jon's increasing anger at Ramsay is initially cut from the fifth season, though their rivalry from A Dance with Dragons was alluded to when Ramsay compared himself to Jon and outright expressed a determination to rise to power like Jon did. The sixth season, however, sees Ramsay come into contact with Jon for the first time in the series via the Bastard Letter, which ultimately leads to their climactic showdown, the Battle of the Bastards.
At the end of the fifth and most recent book, Ramsay is still alive.
In the books, Ramsay is often accompanied by a gang of brutal sadistic lackeys called "the Bastard's Boys", who assist him in his atrocities. Ramsay is unaware that they all report to Roose about his deeds, as the latter secretly reveals to Reek. There are no women among the Bastard's Boys. In the TV version, Myranda is loosely a condensed and gender-swapped equivalent to them. She is mentioned to be the kennelmaster's daughter, perhaps a nod to the one called Ben Bones.
{Rhaenys Targaryen}{Aegon Targaryen}
Maternal cousins raised as paternal half-siblings:{Robb Stark}Sansa StarkArya StarkBran I the Broken{Rickon Stark}
Jon Snow, born Aegon Targaryen,[N 2] is the son of Lyanna Stark and Rhaegar Targaryen, the late Prince of Dragonstone. From infancy, Jon is presented as the bastard son of Lord Eddard Stark, Lyanna's brother, and raised alongside Eddard's lawful children at Winterfell. Jon's true parentage is kept secret from everyone, including Jon himself, in order to protect him from those that sought the complete annihilation of House Targaryen.
Jon joins the Night's Watch and is later elected as Lord Commander. As a result of several controversial decisions, such as allowing the wildlings to settle south of the Wall, Jon is murdered in a mutiny, but is resurrected by the Red Priestess Melisandre.
Freed from his Night's Watch vows, Jon and his half-sister Sansa Stark retake Winterfell from House Bolton, restoring House Stark's dominion over the North. Jon is declared King in the North.
Jon negotiates with Daenerys Targaryen for an alliance against the White Walkers in the imminent Great War. Later he pledges himself and his army to Daenerys, whom he falls in love with, subsequently abdicating his throne and being named Warden of the North.
Later, Jon learns his true lineage from Samwell Tarly, revealing Daenerys is his aunt. A dragonrider whose dragon was Rhaegal, he fights in the Battle of Winterfell, during which the Night King is defeated and the return of the Long Night is prevented. Afterwards, Jon aids Daenerys in her resumed campaign to take the Iron Throne and participates in the Battle of King's Landing. However, when Daenerys lays waste to a surrendered King's Landing, Jon tries but is unable to dissuade her from more destruction and assassinates her to prevent further carnage.
Following the Great Council of 305 AC, Jon is sent into exile, returning to the Night's Watch. He leads the remaining Free Folk to settle in the thawing free lands.
Artistic depiction of Rhaegar Targaryen abducting Lyanna Stark.
Ned Stark finds Lyanna dying after giving birth to Rhaegar's last living child, whom Ned then passes off as his own bastard son, "Jon Snow."
Jon Snow as an infant.
Eighteen years before the War of the Five Kings, Rhaegar Targaryen allegedly abducted Lyanna Stark in a scandal that led to the outbreak of Robert's Rebellion. Rhaegar eventually returned to fight in the war, but not before leaving Lyanna behind at the Tower of Joy, guarded by Lord Commander Gerold Hightower and Ser Arthur Dayne of the Kingsguard. Eddard Stark rode to war along with her betrothed, Robert Baratheon, to rescue his sister and avenge the deaths of their father and brother at the orders of Aerys II, the Mad King.
Robert ultimately killed Rhaegar at the Battle of the Trident, effectively ensuring their victory in the war. After the Sack of King's Landing, Ned continued south in search of his sister and ultimately found her at the Tower of Joy in the Red Mountains at the border of Dorne. Ned and his companions engaged in a final fierce melee with the remaining Kingsguard, which resulted in the deaths of all combatants save Ned himself and Howland Reed.
After defeating the last of the Kingsguard, Ned rushed into the tower to save his sister - only to find Lyanna dying from childbirth, having just given birth to Rhaegar's own son. Desperate to protect the life of her newborn child, a fading Lyanna pleaded with Ned to promise her that he would keep her son safe, and his true heritage hidden from Robert as he had been Rhaegar's most bitter enemy. Furthermore, the boy's existence was a potential threat to Robert's claim to the Iron Throne after the deaths of Rhaegar's other children, Rhaenys and Aegon, by his wife Elia Martell, who also perished, during the Sack of King's Landing. In accordance with her last wish, Ned resolved to pass Lyanna's son off as his own bastard and raise him in his home castle - a great blow to his honor as he knew that his decision would shame both himself and his wife, Catelyn Tully.
Rather than using his nephew's birth name of Aegon, which would have given away his real parentage, Ned gave the baby the name "Jon" after his great friend and mentor Jon Arryn, Lord of the Vale, whom he loved like a second father. The boy also grew up using the surname "Snow", as is customary for acknowledged bastards in the North. In truth, however, "Jon" is not a bastard at all, as Rhaegar apparently had his marriage to Elia annulled and married Lyanna.
Jon spent the next seventeen years being raised in Winterfell as Eddard's illegitimate son, alongside his trueborn children with his wife. Understandably, Eddard never told anyone, including Catelyn or Jon himself, who his mother was or even if she was still alive. When pressed by Robert, whom he couldn't deny an answer, Ned vaguely claimed that Jon's mother was a lowborn woman named "Wylla" that he met during the war. Eddard never treated Jon much differently from his trueborn children.
Despite sharing a happy marriage, Jon's presence at Winterfell would serve as a constant source of friction between Eddard and Catelyn. Catelyn never mistreated Jon, but she was cold towards him and avoided him whenever possible, viewing him only as a living reminder of the one time that Eddard had dishonored her. Catelyn would later confess to her daughter-in-law Talisa about how Jon caught the pox when he was a child, and she stayed with him through the night and prayed to the gods to let him live out of guilt for previously praying for his death, accepting that the boy was not to blame for her husband's sin, though it was still not enough to make her love Jon, something she would eventually come to regret.
Due to his bastard status, Jon grew up feeling like an outsider at Winterfell. Although Ned would see that he was well-treated, Jon's attendance at Winterfell's more "formal" occasions was restricted and he would even be barred from sitting inside at the Lord's table with his family so as not to offend important guests. Otherwise, Jon still lived better than many bastard-born children and was well-raised by Eddard as his own. He was loved by his father and siblings, was never hungry or poor, lived in his father's castle, and had a noble's upbringing. Jon received a highborn education from Maester Luwin and a young lord's martial training from Winterfell's master-at-arms, Ser Rodrik Cassel.
Jon and Robb play with snowballs in their childhood.
Of the Stark children, Jon was very close friends with Robb - given that they were roughly the same age, being regular companions in training and riding. He was also close with both Bran and Rickon, and was friendly rival to Lord Eddard's ward, Theon Greyjoy. However, Jon's closest relationship was with Arya, who, as an adventurous tomboy prone to un-ladylike pursuits, also felt like a social outsider. In contrast, Jon's early relationship with Sansa was unpleasant; very much her mother's daughter, she was aloof and cold to him as well.
Jon and Robb instruct Bran in archery, when their father receives word about a captured deserter from the Night's Watch, for which the penalty is death. Jon accompanies his father, Robb, Bran, Theon, Rodrik, and Jory Cassel, Rodrik's nephew. out to the holdfast where the deserter, Will, is being held. It is Bran's first time watching his father carry out an execution, but as the deserter is brought into position outside, Jon warns Bran not to look away, as their father will know. Jon praises Bran afterwards for keeping his composure. On their way back to Winterfell, they find a dead direwolf - a species not seen south of the Wall in centuries - and her newborn pups.
Jon finds Ghost, the runt of a litter of direwolves.
Jon talks Eddard into allowing the young Starks to adopt them, pointing out that a direwolf is the sigil of House Stark: given that there are five direwolves and five trueborn Stark children, it must be a sign that the Stark children are meant to have the pups. In order to make this point, Jon intentionally leaves himself out of the count of Stark children, and when Bran asks about this, Jon responds that he is not a Stark. Just as they are about to leave, however, he finds the runt of the litter, an albino, which crawled away from its mother's corpse. Theon remarks, "The runt of the litter, that one's yours, Snow." Jon takes this direwolf as his own, naming him Ghost.
Jon, Theon and Robb discuss the royal family.
Catelyn ensures that Jon, Robb, and Theon are groomed for the arrival of Robert and Queen Cersei Lannister. Jon, in particular, is set against the altering of his appearance, as well as expressing antipathy against the royal family. When the Baratheon entourage arrives, Jon is present, but is not allowed to attend the subsequent banquet for fear of offending the royal guests (on Catelyn's suggestion). He waits outside in the courtyard venting his frustrations against a practice dummy. When Jon's uncle, Benjen Stark, arrives, Jon tells him he has been thinking about it, and before his father leaves for the south he wants to join the Night's Watch.
Jon meets Tyrion Lannister.
Since they don't care about recruits' pasts and even a bastard can rise to positions of high honor in it, the Watch provides an easy escape from his life in Winterfell. He later meets Tyrion Lannister. As a dwarf, Tyrion knows what it is like to be an outcast, so he gives the young man some advice: never try to hide what he is, for the world will not forget. Instead, he should wear the name "bastard" openly, like armor, and then it can never be used to hurt him. When Jon angrily asks Tyrion what he knows about it, Tyrion replies that "all dwarfs are bastards in their father's eyes."
Jaime sarcastically thanks Jon.
Before departing, Jon has a run-in with Jaime Lannister, who infamously killed his grandfather, the Mad King. Jaime sarcastically thanks him for protecting all of them from the mythical monsters that allegedly exist beyond the Wall, in order to taunt him. Before Jon departs for the Wall, he says goodbye to the unconscious Bran, who has been injured in a fall. He gives Arya a sword named Needle that he had made especially for her, advising her to "stick them with the pointy end." Jon says he will miss her, and they both hug.
Robb bids farewell to Jon.
As he prepares his saddle, Robb asks if Jon said goodbye to Bran and is sure Bran will survive. Jon says Starks are hard to kill, and Robb asks about his mother, and Jon assures him she was kind. Robb offers to visit him at the Wall sometime, and they bid farewell with a hug. At their parting on the Kingsroad, Eddard vows to tell Jon the truth about his mother the next time they meet. Jon is accompanied by his uncle Benjen and Tyrion, who has expressed a desire to see the Wall (and urinate from the top of it) before he dies. Ghost also accompanies Jon to the Wall.
Jon trains at Castle Black.
At Castle Black, Jon's expectations of the Night's Watch are soon disappointed. Instead of a brotherhood of noble warriors sworn to defend the realm from wildlings and White Walkers, he realizes the Watch is a dumping ground for criminals and wastrels. He earns the enmity of Ser Alliser Thorne, the master-at-arms in charge of training new recruits. He humiliates his fellow recruits with his superior fighting skills, learned from Winterfell's master-at-arms over the course of many years.
Benjen bids farewell to Jon atop the Wall.
Benjen stands with Jon on his first watch and tells him that he is going ranging North of the Wall. Jon is keen to accompany him, but Benjen insists that he complete his training. Tyrion helps Jon see that he is no better than the recruits, but has been afforded more advantages than them due to his highborn upbringing. Jon offers to train some of his new brothers and Pypar and Grenn accept. He also befriends the fat and bookish coward Samwell Tarly when he arrives at Castle Black, and helps to protect him from the cruelty of Thorne. Thorne angrily tells Jon that going easy on Sam won't help him, and will risk getting him killed during the next winter.
Jon takes his vows before the heart tree beyond the Wall.
After completing his training, Jon is inducted into the Night's Watch and swears his oath before a weirwood Heart tree on the north side of the Wall. He is assigned to the stewards rather than the rangers, and at first, thinks it is due to his ongoing feud with Thorne. However, Sam points out that Lord Commander Jeor Mormont has asked for Jon as his personal steward, and may be grooming him for command. Jon is concerned when Benjen's horse returns to the Wall riderless. Later, Ghost finds the corpses of two rangers assigned to Benjen, Othor and Jafer Flowers. Learning of Eddard's imprisonment, Thorne taunts Jon about being a traitor's bastard, causing Jon to draw a knife in anger. He is restricted to quarters.
Lord Commander Mormont rewards Jon.
Later, Othor's corpse becomes a wight and attacks Mormont. Jon saves Mormont's life by burning the wight, earning a pardon for his earlier misdemeanor. Mormont also gives Jon his Valyrian steel sword, Longclaw - given that his own son Jorah fled into exile and left it behind. Jon ponders abandoning the Watch to join Robb's army when it marches against the Lannisters, but Aemon tells him that he chose to stay with the Watch when he was similarly tested - as he is secretly a long-forgotten great uncle of the Mad King, and was once known as Aemon Targaryen, but his entire family was killed at the end of Robert's Rebellion.
Jon is convinced to return to the Night's Watch.
News of Eddard's execution reach Castle Black. Jon immediately leaves, meaning to join Robb and seek vengeance for his father's death. Samwell, Pypar, and Grenn intercept him and convince him to stay. Mormont tells Jon their war against the White Walkers is more important than the game of thrones in King's Landing. He tells Jon that the Watch is marching beyond the Wall in force, to find Benjen and learn the truth about the threat. Jon swears to him not to attempt to desert again and accompanies the troops as they set out.
Mormont prepares Jon for a command role as the Great Ranging travels North seeking Benjen and an explanation for the wight attack. They pass through several abandoned wildling villages before arriving at the home of their unsavory ally Craster.
Edd tells Jon of Craster's sexual inclinations upon their arrival at the Keep.
Jon is perplexed when he learns that Craster incestuously marries his own daughters, but apparently has no sons. He takes an instant dislike to Craster when they meet with him. Craster reveals to Jeor that he has not seen Benjen, and that the wildlings are gathering with their leader, King-Beyond-the-Wall Mance Rayder. Jeor reprimands Jon for failing to follow his lead with Craster - the man disgusts him as well, but unfortunately, he's one of the few wildlings who is willing to give them shelter and supplies which mean the difference between life and death for many black brothers in the wild.
Sam appeals to Jon to aid Craster's pregnant daughter-wife Gilly. She is afraid of having a son, but will not say why. Jon is frustrated and refuses to disobey Jeor's order to leave Craster's wives alone. Jon sees Craster carrying a newborn into the woods and follows him. He sees Craster leave the child for a White Walker but does not recognize the creature hidden in the shadows. Craster spots him and knocks him out. Craster disarms Jon and drags him back to his keep. He expels the rangers from his home. Jeor reveals that he knew that Craster was sacrificing his sons, but chose to ignore it because of his usefulness as an ally of the Night's Watch.
Jon arrives at the Fist of the First Men.
The rangers reach the ancient fortified peak known as the Fist of the First Men and await Qhorin and his party from the Shadow Tower. When Qhorin arrives, he suggests altering their tactics and using small groups to overcome Mance's lookouts in the Skirling Pass. Jon asks to join Qhorin's raiders and Jeor lets him go.
Jon and Ygritte share body heat.
Qhorin leads his men into the pass, and they locate and ambush the wildling watchers. Jon realizes his opponent is a young woman and hesitates to kill her. She introduces herself as Ygritte, but does not give away details of Mance's plans. Qhorin leaves Jon alone to execute Ygritte. Jon is unable to do it and she escapes. He pursues and recaptures her, but they become separated from Qhorin's group. Jon decides they cannot regroup with Qhorin due to the approaching night. Ygritte convinces Jon to sleep next to her to share body heat and keep warm, and then makes sexual advances towards him. Jon rejects the temptation to break his oath.
Jon and Ygritte discuss the restrictions of the Night's Watch vows, including his virginity.
Jon unties Ygritte's legs, while keeping her hands bound, as he continues his search for the rest of the raiders. She tells him that she knows that he is a virgin. As they walk, Ygritte questions Jon as to why the men of the Night's Watch hate the wildlings. She explains that both the Free Folk and the Northmen like the Starks are descendants of the First Men, and the wildlings just happened to be on the wrong side of the Wall when it was built. She urges him to forget about his oath and live free. Another sexual advance from Ygritte prompts him to reach for his sword. She backs away and trips him with the rope, when he is caught off guard.
Qhorin and Jon are held captive by the wildlings.
He pursues her but is ambushed and taken captive. Ygritte tells him that he should have taken her when he had the chance. Ygritte brings Jon to the Lord of Bones, and convinces him that Mance will want to question Jon. The Lord of Bones has a prisoner of his own; Qhorin. The Halfhand tells Jon that the rest of the men were killed while they searched for him. He urges Jon to make their deaths meaningful and become a spy within the wildling ranks. He then feigns anger with Jon until he is restrained after managing to knock Jon over.
In Winterfell, after Theon betrays House Stark and takes the castle, he refuses to flee and join the Night's Watch when he is surrounded by Ramsay Snow's men, claiming that Jon will likely kill him for betraying the Starks and apparently burning Bran and Rickon alive (in actuality, Theon faked their deaths).
Jon slays Qhorin.
As they make their way to Mance, Ygritte continues to playfully mock Jon by tapping him on the head with the flat of Longclaw. Qhorin uses the distraction to advance his plan to portray Jon as a traitor to the Night's Watch. He attacks Jon, and the Lord of Bones allows them to fight. Jon is initially reluctant until Qhorin calls his "father" a traitor and his mother a whore. Jon slays Qhorin, who whispers a line from the Night's Watch oath to Jon with his dying breath, stunning Ygritte and the rest of the band. Jon's hands are freed, and Ygritte leads him to the crest of the mountain to look over the massive wildling encampment.
As Jon is led by Ygritte and the Lord of Bones into the main wildling camp in the Frostfang mountains, he discovers that almost all of wildling society is on the move to escape the White Walkers, including the women and children. As they enter the camp, Jon is shocked to see a real-life giant walk past. Many of the wildlings are surprised to see Jon in his all-black Night's Watch clothing and shout "crow!" at his approach. Several young boys pelt Jon with ice and small stones but Ygritte shoos them away.
Jon is led into the tent of the King-Beyond-the-Wall, Mance Rayder, where the Lord of Bones explains that he is Ned Stark's bastard son to a large man with a heavy beard who is eating chicken by the fire. He says he doesn't care, but his interest is piqued on hearing that Jon killed Qhorin Halfhand. As they talk Jon kneels before the man, whom he assumes to be Mance Rayder, and calls him "your Grace." This causes all of the wildlings to burst out laughing. As it turns out this isn't Mance, but his lieutenant Tormund Giantsbane. The real Mance is an unassuming man sitting in a corner, who then introduces himself and tells Jon to stand, as no man kneels before another among the Free Folk, since they do not recognize a class of nobility in their culture.
Mance says he is glad that Jon killed Qhorin, as he had killed many of Mance's wildlings. Mance asks Jon why he wants to join them and he replies he wants to be free, but Mance doesn't believe this. Jon then explains that when the Night's Watch camped at Craster's Keep, he saw Craster leave his newborn son in the woods as an offering, and the inhuman creature that took it. Jon says that he wants to leave the Night's Watch, because he is disgusted that Mormont already knew what Craster was doing but did nothing to stop it. Jon states that the First Men he is descended from defeated the White Walkers once during the Long Night, and that now he wants "to fight for the side who fights for the living." Mance is satisfied and advises Jon to get a new cloak, his black one clearly attracting malignity.
Mance explains his unification process to Jon.
Jon then marches south with the Free Folk army. Mance explains that his army is a diverse force, formed of about ninety different groups or clans of wildlings, who speak seven different languages, and have numerous internal rivalries. However, he managed to unite them all by telling them the truth: that they will all die if they remain north of the Wall. Mance brings Jon to one of his scouts, Orell. He is sitting silently with his eyes rolled back as an eagle circles above him. Mance says that he is a "warg."
Jon learns a warg is a person who is capable of entering the mind of an animal, seeing what it sees and even controlling its actions. Orell controls his eagle to scout miles ahead. Mance asks him what he has seen, and Orell says he saw the Fist of the First Men - and many dead "crows."
As Jon and the Free Folk arrive at the Fist of the First Men, they survey the bloody aftermath of the assault on the Night's Watch by the White Walkers and their army of undead wights. However, they only find corpses of horses and no human remains. Jon says that there were three hundred men of the Night's Watch at the Fist, and asks Mance if Mormont could still be alive. Mance says that with Mormont, it's possible he was able to escape, but that even if he did he and his men took quite a beating and are trapped miles away from the Wall with the White Walkers in close pursuit. Mance warns Jon that all of the missing corpses from the Fist are no longer his friends and brothers from the Night's Watch, but have been resurrected as undead monsters who serve the White Walkers. Jon reluctantly agrees.
Mance orders Tormund to take a force of twenty men to scale the Wall to attack Castle Black from its exposed rear. Mance's plan is for Tormund's small band to distract Castle Black by attacking their exposed southern side, at which point Mance's main army will assault it from the north. Tormund will know that Mance is in position when his army makes a massive signal fire. Mance orders Tormund to take Jon with him, as Jon knows the layout of Castle Black, and it will prove a key test of his loyalty: if it turns out that he won't really betray the Night's Watch, Tormund can easily throw him off the Wall to his death.
On their way to the Wall and Castle Black, Jon and Ygritte are gathering firewood, when the warg Orell asks him about the defenses of the Night's Watch. Orell has seen through the eyes of his eagle that there are patrols on top of the Wall and he wants to know how frequent they are. Jon says they usually sent out patrols in teams of four, two builders to inspect for structural damage and two rangers to protect them, but that the frequency of their patrols often changes. Orell says the wildlings know there are nineteen castles along the south side of the Wall, but he wants to know how many are currently manned.
Jon finds this very unpleasant, but reluctantly says that only three are currently manned. Apart from Castle Black, there is also Eastwatch-by-the-Sea at the extreme eastern end, and the Shadow Tower at the western end. Jon is then asked how many men currently garrison Castle Black. Jon is very reluctant to answer, but after being threatened by Orell, he gives an exaggerated number, saying there are one thousand men (this is a lie, as Castle Black only had six hundred men before the Great Ranging, and the garrison now is closer to three hundred). Tormund tells Jon that he likes him, but if he is lying to them, he will rip his guts out through his throat. Despite this, Jon remains steadfast to the lie.
Jon loses his virginity to Ygritte.
Jon and Ygritte then walk away, but she steals his sword Longclaw, making him chase her to get it back. She leads him into a nearby cave. Ygritte starts disrobing, and says that she wants to make sure Jon has truly come over to the wildlings' side and broken his Night's Watch vows - by making him break his oath of celibacy with her. She quickly shucks off all of her clothes and walks up to him naked. Jon is very hesitant at first, but they soon end up having sex in the cave. Afterwards, Jon and Ygritte lay together in a naked embrace, and Ygritte tells Jon she wishes they could stay in this cave forever.
Jon and Ygritte kiss atop the Wall.
He joins a wildling party led by Tormund Giantsbane to climb the Wall. Beforehand, he is questioned by Ygritte about their relationship and his allegiance to the Night's Watch, saying that he must be loyal to her instead. During the climb, Ygritte causes part of the ice to break, leaving them hanging in the air by the rope. Orell, believing them to be lost, cuts it. Jon manages to save himself and Ygritte by climbing back to the ice. The two return to the climb and reach the top, where Ygritte gazes at the north side and the south side, before they kiss.
Jon and Ygritte journey south of the Wall.
After surviving the perilous climb of the Wall, Jon, Ygritte and the wildlings led by Tormund Giantsbane advance through the Gift - the strip of land immediately south of the Wall which the Watch draws supplies from - and continue on towards Castle Black, to await Mance Rayder's signal to begin the attack. Afterwards, Jon confronts Orell about cutting his and Ygritte's rope loose on the Wall, nearly killing both of them in the process. Orell tells Jon that he doesn't see Ygritte complaining about what happened, because she is a wildling and understood what needed to be done in a pressure situation, also telling Jon that this is the reason he will never be able to keep her.
During the journey through the woods, a jealous Orell confronts Ygritte and says that he would be a better man for her than Jon, while continuing to express his distrust in him. Later, Jon tries to persuade Ygritte that the wildlings can't win an attack against the realms but she refuses to listen and points out that Jon is now one of them; if it fails, so does he. She restates her passion for him and tells him bluntly that if they die, they die, but before they die, they will live.
Jon and Ygritte argue over the killing of innocents.
Jon and the wildling party prepare to raid an elderly horse breeder's home for his horses and gold; Jon insists that the old man is no threat to them, but Orell and Tormund Giantsbane intend to kill the man so as to stop him from alerting the Night's Watch to their presence. However, when the party attacks the farmstead, Jon surreptitiously hits a rock with his sword, alerting the old man who flees; Jon also distracts Ygritte when she tries to shoot the fleeing man with an arrow. Outside, Tormund moves to kill the old man, but Orell tells him to have Jon do it instead to prove his loyalty. Jon is ultimately unable to kill the innocent man, and instead, Ygritte kills the man with an arrow.
Jon battles Orell.
Realizing that Jon is still loyal to the Night's Watch, Tormund orders his men to kill Jon; Tormund restrains Ygritte to stop her trying to help Jon, and soon after Jon battles with Orell. In the nearby Queenscrown, a hidden Bran enters the mind of Summer to aid Jon. as he battles to the death with Orell and finally kills him. With the last of his strength Orell wargs into the mind of his pet eagle, which swoops down and attacks Jon, clawing him badly about the face before he fights the bird off. Jon then steals a horse and escapes, leaving a heartbroken Ygritte and heading back to the Wall.
Stopping to rest and tend to his injury, Jon is confronted by a furious Ygritte, who has an arrow ready to shoot him. Jon tries to talk Ygritte out of shooting him, insisting that he still loves her. Though his feelings are clearly reciprocated Ygritte is still angered by his betrayal and shoots Jon three times with her bow as he flees from her. Jon is badly injured, but his horse manages to carry him the rest of the way to Castle Black, as he hovers in and out of consciousness. Having reached safety, Jon is brought inside the castle by the guards, where he encounters Sam and Pypar, who are overjoyed to see him and insist that his injuries be taken care of.
Jon survives the injuries inflicted by Ygritte and has largely recovered, though he still grimaces while getting dressed. At some point, Jon has been told about his half-brother Robb's death at the Red Wedding and wanting vengeance for his family, but decides to stay at the wall. He shares with Sam that he had always been jealous of Robb for having more of their father's affection and for being better than him at riding, fighting, and winning the affection of other girls. Still, he says he could never bring himself to hate Robb, as he was also always a good friend and honorable person. Sam responds by saying he has felt the same way about Jon, that Jon is better than him at everything (except reading).
Jon testifies before a panel of sworn brothers.
It turns out that Sam had been sent to retrieve Jon, who has been summoned to testify before a panel of five sworn brothers, including Maester Aemon, acting Lord Commander Alliser Thorne, and Janos Slynt (who was exiled to the Wall by Tyrion). At the hearing, Jon admits to killing Qhorin, living amongst the wildlings, and sleeping with one. He also states that Mance intends to attack and gives intel on his plans and strength. Both Slynt and Thorne are openly hostile to Jon, disbelieving much of what he says and call for his execution. Aemon, however, realizes that Jon is speaking the truth, and the hearing ends with Jon being allowed to keep his head.
Meanwhile, at the Dreadfort, when Theon is pressed by Roose Bolton for information on the whereabouts of Bran and Rickon, he reluctantly guesses that they may try to head to Jon at Castle Black. At Ramsay's suggestion, Jon becomes a target of the Boltons, since Ramsay reasons that even though Jon may be a bastard, he is still a son of Ned Stark, and may pose a threat to the Boltons' future hold on the North, either because the Northerners who are still furious at the Boltons for betraying the Starks may rally behind him even though he is a bastard in the Night's Watch, or because Jon may simply seek revenge on both Roose and Ramsay for their role in the Starks' downfall at Red Wedding. Roose subsequently sends his hunter, Locke, to the Wall in order to infiltrate the Watch, use Jon to find Bran and Rickon and then kill them all, promising a lordship as a reward.
Jon speaks to the Night's Watch about the wildling threat following the raids in the Gift.
The orphan Olly then arrives at Castle Black, telling them how the wildling raiding parties south of the Wall killed his entire village. Thorne asks for Jon's opinion on protecting the smallfolk living in the Gift, thinking Jon will disagree with his decision not to send help. Instead, Jon regretfully says that he knows from his time with the wildlings that this exactly what they want - to lure as many of them out of Castle Black as possible to weaken its defenses for the massive attack about to come from the north side of the Wall, which would allow them to move over a thousand miles southward before they reached an army that could stop them.
Therefore, Jon agrees with Thorne that they should do nothing, and concentrate every available man in Castle Black itself to brace for the assault. They are interrupted by a single horn blast, revealed to be Grenn and Edd, who have escaped the mutineers at Craster's Keep. Jon is relieved to see them alive, but his relief turns to concern when they reveal that the mutineers remain entrenched at the keep. Jon understands that if the mutineers are captured by Mance Rayder, then the wildlings will know how vulnerable Castle Black really is. Jon tries to convince Thorne that eliminating the mutineers should be their top priority.
Jon and Grenn train the new recruits in preparation for the impending battle against the wildlings.
Jon and Grenn are training the new recruits, one of which is Locke, to fight wildlings. The training session is interrupted by Thorne who continues to talk down to Jon and reminds him that he is a steward. Locke approaches Jon and they get acquainted, with Jon unaware of Locke's true purpose. Jon and Sam are talking about Bran going beyond the Wall. Jon is worried for Bran and once he realizes that he could be at Craster's Keep, Locke comes in to tell him that Thorne has summoned him. Thorne gives him permission to attack Craster's Keep, but only with volunteers; Slynt convinced Thorne that Jon questioning his decisions is a problem, and if Jon gets himself killed on a dangerous mission he volunteered for (knowing the risks), it will both remove him and be his own fault; alternatively, if he succeeds and returns alive, so much the better.
Jon gives a speech about avenging Mormont's death at the hands of the mutineers and this convinces a number of his brothers to join him in his attack, including Grenn, Edd, and Locke (who secretly intends to kill Jon during the mission and blame it on the mutineers).
Jon kills Karl with Longclaw.
The group attacks at night, taking the mutineers by surprise. Jon personally enters the main building to deal with Karl Tanner. The two of them are evenly matched, though Karl manages to get the upper hand by spitting in Jon's face and then kicking him to the floor. Before he can land the finishing blow, Karl is stabbed in the back by Sissy. Karl attempts to kill her, though it's a fatal mistake as Jon doesn't miss the opportunity to thrust Longclaw through the back of Karl's head and out of his mouth.
Jon reunites with Ghost.
After the fight, Jon and the others count five dead amongst the Watch, including Locke, whose neck was snapped in a way that terrifies Jon (Jon being completely unaware that Locke had been killed by a Bran-possessed Hodor). He then reunites with Ghost, before turning to Craster's wives and offering them refuge at Castle Black. They decline, saying that after the abuse they took at other members of the Night's Watch they can't trust them and will go their own way. Before leaving, they set a torch to Craster's Keep, burning it to the ground.
Jon returns to Castle Black.
Jon and his fellow black brothers return to Castle Black, much to the annoyance of Thorne and Slynt. Once Alliser spots Ghost, he orders Jon to lock up Ghost or his direwolf will become food for the Night's Watch. Later, Jon reports that Mance Rayder's army was closing in on Craster's Keep and will reach the Wall before the next full moon. Jon states that defending the tunnel is hopeless since the gates will not stop the giants in Mance Rayder's army. He proposes they seal the tunnel, but Alliser Thorne refuses to listen. Alliser then assigns Jon and Sam to night duties atop the Wall until the next new moon.
Jon and Sam receive the recent news regarding Mole's Town.
News of the wildling attack on Mole's Town, the largest village in the Gift, reaches Castle Black. Jon, Pypar, and Eddison Tollett try to comfort a distraught Sam, who believes that Gilly and her baby are dead. Grenn is furious that the wildlings slaughtered the inhabitants of Mole's Town, which included brothers of the Night's Watch. Jon concludes that if Mole's Town has been attacked, then Mance Rayder's assault on Castle Black is imminent.
Atop the Wall, Jon and Sam are staring out into the darkness of the north and awaiting the imminent wildling invasion. Sam attempts to interrogate Jon about what it was like to be with a woman, stating that as their deaths are likely imminent, it may be his last chance to find out. Sam brings up that the vows of the Night's Watch only explicitly forbid members from taking wives or producing children, and that other "activities" are open to interpretation. Jon replies glumly that Alliser most likely does not care about their interpretations. When further pressed by Sam to describe lying down with Ygritte, Jon attempts to explain but is unable to properly express it, proclaiming exasperatedly that he is "not a bleeding poet." Jon offers to take the watch up alone so Sam can go below.
Jon spots Mance's promised signal.
Later that night, Jon hears the horn blowing and looks north, witnessing a tremendous conflagration north of the Wall, just as Mance had promised him. Jon approaches Thorne, who finally relents and admits that they should have heeded his advice and sealed the tunnel, but grimly muses that leadership means not second-guessing oneself because of "clever little twats" like him. While they start to prepare for the massive wildling army that is emerging from the woods, another horn blows from down below at Castle Black, signaling the unanticipated appearance of Tormund's band of wildlings at Castle Black.
Jon silently thanks Grenn.
Alliser decides to go down and defend the keep, leaving Slynt in charge of the Wall's defenses. Even though a wildling strike force led by two giants, one of which is riding a mammoth, charge towards Castle Black's outer gate, Slynt does nothing and breaks down, demoralizing the troops. Grenn steps in by falsely claiming that Alliser needs Janos back down in Castle Black, allowing Jon to take command of the Wall's defenses, silently thanking Grenn. The black brothers continue to rain down arrows on the advancing wildlings, even killing ones that are attempting to scale the Wall.
Jon takes command on the northern defense.
Dongo, armed with a massive bow, manages to fire a huge arrow at one of the bunkers atop the Wall, and Jon is unable to warn his brothers fast enough before the giant fires again, violently killing one of his black brothers. Although Jon manages to repel most of the wildlings attacking the outer gate, including the mammoth, one giant manages to single-handedly lift the gate. Jon, knowing the inner gate won't hold against him, sends a group of black brothers led by Grenn to hold it at any cost. Jon decides to give Edd control of the top of the Wall, and tasks Sam with releasing Ghost from his pen to assist in the fighting, then orders half a dozen other men to descend with him and finally enter the fray.
Jon fights Styr during the Battle of Castle Black.
Jon quickly dispatches many wildlings with Longclaw, catching the attention of Styr, Magnar of the Thenns, and so the two meet in single combat. Styr eventually gets the upper hand by knocking Longclaw away, then Jon disarms Styr of his axe using some chains, and the fighting goes hand to hand. Styr brutally smashes his face into an anvil and tosses him into the blacksmith's forge. However, when Styr picks Jon up and begins to strangle him, Jon spits blood in Styr's face, distracting him long enough for him to grab the blacksmith's hammer lying next to him and bury it into Styr's skull.
Ygritte dies in Jon's arms.
Upon killing him, Jon turns around to find Ygritte pointing her bow at him with an arrow drawn. He smiles at her, causing her to hesitate. Before either can say anything, Ygritte is shot through the heart by Olly. Jon holds her in his arms as she tells him that they should have never left the cave, and they lament circumstances that prevented them from being together as she succumbs to her wound.
Later, while Edd forces the wildling army to retreat for the night, down below Jon deals with a heavily wounded Tormund, who continues to fight despite being the only wildling left alive in the castle. Jon subdues him with a crossbow and orders his brothers to take him prisoner and interrogate him. The following morning, Jon discusses with Sam his suicidal solution to end the wildling threat: he plans to assassinate Mance Rayder, noting that he is the only thing binding the disparate wildling clans that make up the army, and his death will rob them of that purpose and leadership.
Jon ventures beyond the Wall to confront Mance.
Sam tries to stop him, but to no avail. As Jon prepares to leave via Castle Black's tunnel, they discover the bodies of the black brothers who held the inner gate against the giant. Grenn is amongst the casualties, and Jon tells Sam that all bodies must be burned. Before Jon leaves, he remembers the promise he made to Jeor Mormont and decides to leave Longclaw with Sam. Sam tells Jon to come back, and Jon looks and Sam and gives him an unsure smile before stepping out into the wilderness on the other side of the gate. Jon finds Mance in a wildling camp north of the Wall, and claims he wants to negotiate with him.
Jon meets Stannis Baratheon.
Despite Mance expressing disappointment at Jon's betrayal, they drink a toast to some of their fallen friends, such as Grenn, Ygritte, and Mag the giant. Mance then notices that Jon is eyeing a cooking knife, and quickly deduces that Jon came to parley with Mance simply so he could assassinate him. Before anyone can make a move, they are interrupted by the sound of war horns. Outside, hundreds of mounted knights led by Stannis Baratheon and Davos Seaworth arrives and slaughter many of the wildlings, scattering the rest.
Jon gives Ygritte a northern burial beyond the Wall, at the request of Tormund.
Jon introduces himself to Stannis as Ned Stark's son, and suggests that Stannis arrest Mance instead of executing him, reasoning that Mance had the chance to kill him, but chose not to. Out of respect for Ned, Stannis accepts, and Jon also advises Stannis to burn the bodies of the dead in order to prevent them from returning as wights. During the funeral, Jon notices Melisandre staring at him through the flames. Later, Jon visits Tormund, who tells Jon that Ygritte truly loved him, and asks him to lay Ygritte to rest north of the Wall. Jon later takes his love's body into the woods and burns it, weeping as he walks away.
Jon bows before Stannis.
Jon spars with Olly, along with other new recruits before being summoned by Melisandre to see Stannis atop the Wall. He questions the Red Woman if she is cold, as she is dressed in unusually light clothing for the local climate, but she states that "the Lord's fire" lives within her. Melisandre asks if Jon is a virgin. Jon replies he is not, which she approves. Jon meets with Stannis and Davos, kneeling before the king. With Roose Bolton ruling Winterfell, Stannis asks Jon if he wants to avenge his fallen half-brother.
Jon reaffirms that he is a sworn brother of the Night's Watch. Davos states that his loyalty to the Watch is considered dubious because of his time spent with the wildlings. Nevertheless, Stannis wants Jon to retake the North with the help of the wildlings, stating that he will pardon them and declare them citizens of the realm once the war is won. Stannis will give the wildlings their lives and freedom if Mance bends the knee and swears his loyalty. He gives Jon until nightfall to convince Mance, or the King-Beyond-the-Wall will be burned as a sacrifice to R'hllor.
Jon attempts to convince Mance to bend the knee to Stannis.
Jon does his best to convince Mance to save his life as well as all the wildlings, but fails: the wildlings only follow him because he kneels to no one, so if he did kneel to Stannis, they would lose all respect for him and ignore his commands anyway, so he might as well die with his honor intact by refusing. As Mance is led to the pyre, Stannis gives him one last chance to save his life. Mance politely refuses and is led to the stake and Melisandre lights the pyre. Unable to watch Mance suffer, Jon storms off. Just as the fire begins to fully consume Mance, he is mercifully shot through the heart with an arrow by Jon.
Stannis and Davos summon Jon to discuss his future. Stannis shows him a letter delivered by messenger-raven from Lyanna Mormont saying she would only pledge her House to a member of House Stark. Stannis offers a simple solution: as king, he will officially legitimize Jon and make him Lord of Winterfell. Later that day, the choosing for the new Lord Commander of the Night's Watch has begun, and many brothers of the Night's Watch have assembled to vote for either Thorne (who is fervently supported by Janos) or Ser Denys Mallister commander of the Shadow Tower.
Jon is elected the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, fulfilling Jeor's wish.
After hearing from Jon that he intends to refuse Stannis's offer and stay true to his vows, Sam nominates Jon as the third candidate and recounts how he took command of the defense of Castle Black (including the fact that Thorne fought bravely and Slynt was cowering in the pantry with Gilly) and was willing to sacrifice himself to stop Mance. With the votes cast, Aemon and his aide tally the tokens and a tie is declared between Jon and Thorne. Aemon feels around in his hands for his voting chip and produces a circle token and adds it to Jon's stack amidst cheers and laughter, as Jon has been chosen as the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch.
Jon is approached by Stannis and Davos about the offer of legitimization. As the new Lord Commander, Jon reminds the king that his place is with the Night's Watch, even though his dream was to be a Stark. Stannis, a man of duty, respects his decision to keep his vow and tells Jon he intends to march on Winterfell within a fortnight since the Night's Watch cannot afford to feed both his army and the wildling prisoners. He also recommends sending Thorne to command Eastwatch-by-the-Sea], and that executing the wildling prisoners would be the safest choice. Stannis then leaves, but Davos stays behind and tries to further persuade Jon to help Stannis retake the North. Davos iterates that the Night's Watch is "the shield that guards the realms of men", telling Jon that it may not just mean protecting the Seven Kingdoms from beyond the Wall, but possibly taking part in battles in order to prevent the Seven Kingdoms from suffering, such as the North will under Bolton rule.
Lord Commander Jon Snow presides over a mess hall meeting.
During Jon's first general meeting of the garrison in the main hall as Lord Commander, he starts with some levity by assigning a black brother to oversee the digging of a new latrine pit. He also acknowledges Ser Alliser Thorne as an experienced and valuable member of the Night's Watch by naming him First Ranger. Jon then orders Slynt to man and repair Greyguard, a ruined castle. Janos refuses to obey and Jon reminds him that this is a direct order. Janos then refuses him a third time and Jon asks Janos if he's refusing to obey the order. Janos publicly insults him, telling Jon, "You can stick your order up your bastard ass." Jon orders Janos to be taken outside, and calls for Olly to fetch him Longclaw, while Janos insists Jon is mistaken if he thinks he can frighten him.
Jon executes Janos Slynt.
Obedience to the laws of his "father" - that the man who passes the sentence must swing the sword - Jon makes ready to personally behead Janos. While on the chopping block, Janos begins to plead for mercy. After a moment of hesitation, Jon executes the cowardly former Commander of the City Watch with a single blow. From across the courtyard, Stannis sees Jon behead Janos for refusing his orders, and slightly nods in approval.
Jon continues to train new recruits, with Stannis, Selyse, Shireen, and Melisandre observing him, with Stannis implying that he does not believe Jon to be Eddard's bastard son - saying that Eddard was always an honorable man and it wasn't in his character to randomly have sex with some tavern whore. Later, Sam presents him with requests to the Northern Lords for men for the Night's Watch.
Melisandre attempts to seduce Jon.
He is reluctant to send one to Roose Bolton, his brother's killer, until Sam convinces him that they must stay neutral and ask for as many men as they can for the Watch, and right now the Boltons rule the North and have the most men - leading Jon to sign the request angrily. Melisandre enters his office and again tries to persuade him to chase the rats out of his home, but he claims that Castle Black is now his home. She attempts to seduce him, sensing a power inside his blood, but Jon rebuffs her, remembering his love for Ygritte. As Melisandre leaves, she tells him, "You know nothing, Jon Snow."
Later on, Jon consults Aemon for advice on a hard decision he is about to make, noting that half the men in the Night's Watch despise him for his sympathy for the wildlings, but Aemon tells him to "Kill the boy, and let the man be born," in other words, just make the hard choice and do what he believes is best. Indeed, Jon's plan is to allow the wildlings to pass the Wall and settle in the North as subjects of the Seven Kingdoms or even let them join the Watch. Jon's idea is met with harsh criticism, even from his closest friends such as Edd and Olly, but Jon's goal is actually to keep the wildlings from falling into the hands of the coming White Walker army. Jon points out that every single wildling left on the north side of the Wall will be killed, then resurrected and added to the White Walkers ever-growing army of the undead.
Jon watches as Stannis leaves Castle Black.
Jon speaks alone with Tormund, who reveals that the remainder of Mance's army probably fled back to Hardhome, a large fishing village on the coast. Jon requests that Tormund go there and negotiate with the remaining wildling chieftains, to let them pass through the Wall on Jon's terms. Tormund agrees, so long as Jon accompanies him so that the wildlings will know it is not a trap. Jon borrows several of Stannis's ships for the journey (as he is marching inland and won't be using them). Later, as Stannis prepares to leave Castle Black for Winterfell with his army, Jon thanks him for his help, promises him he will have his ships back, and watches Stannis depart for Winterfell to take his childhood home back from the Boltons.
Jon later prepares to leave Castle Black with Tormund and a group of black brothers including Edd. He entrusts the care of the Night's Watch to Thorne, who criticizes his mission, and says his farewells to Sam, who gives him a bag of dragonglass daggers in case he should run into White Walkers on the way. He hugs Sam for what might be the last time and leaves Castle Black on his mission.
Later at Winterfell, Ramsay mentions to Sansa that Jon has been made the new Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, citing Jon as an example of a bastard who rose high in the world, claiming that if Jon did it, then so can he.
Jon arrives at Hardhome, eager to evacuate the wildlings.
Jon reaches Hardhome with his companions. After Tormund kills the Lord of Bones for challenging him, he and Jon go inside a hut to speak with the leaders of the clans. Though the wildlings are prepared to kill Jon for murdering Mance, Tormund stands up for him and reveals that Jon killed Mance out of mercy. Jon offers to share the dragonglass weapons with the wildlings and allow them to settle on land south of the Wall if they promise to aid the Night's Watch in the coming battle against the White Walkers: even if they and all the men of the Seven Kingdoms are not enough to stop them, they can at least die fighting. Five thousand wildlings agree while the rest decide to stay, though Tormund hopes more will come around with time.
Jon uses Longclaw to defeat a White Walker.
However, as they are preparing to leave, they are all attacked by an army of wights. Jon fights his way to the hut to retrieve the dragonglass daggers, but he is ambushed by a White Walker. They fight for a while and Jon is almost killed until he retrieves Longclaw. To the surprise of both Jon and the White Walker, Longclaw doesn't shatter from the cold of the Walker's weapon when he uses it to parry his attack - because it is made of Valyrian steel, forged with dragon-fire and spells. Jon quickly regains his ground and slashes the White Walker with it, making it shatter into a cloud of ice particles, and revealing that the White Walkers can also be killed by Valyrian steel.
Jon gazes upon the horrific aftermath of the Hardhome massacre.
Edd helps Jon to his feet and they make it back to the boats to Stannis's ships, with the wights refusing to follow them in the water. But as they leave, the Night King himself appears at thousands of e wharf and shares a long glance with Jon, at the same time using his magic to raise all of the dead as wights before Jon's eyes. Jon looks on in obvious terror, as he knows the slaughter he just witnessed is merely a prelude to what is coming for all of Westeros.
Sam and Jon watch as the wildlings exodus.
Jon and the others make it back to the north side of Castle Black on foot, and he makes himself seen by Thorne so that they will be let inside. Thorne hesitates but ultimately relents and orders the gates to be opened. As the wildlings are let through Castle Black into the Seven Kingdoms, Jon laments not being able to save the rest, while Sam comforts him, reminding him that he at least saved a few, who would have died too if he did nothing. Thorne, however, warns Jon, telling him that his kind heart will get him killed. Indeed, as Jon looks around, he sees almost all of his brothers looking at him scornfully, among them Olly, Othell Yarwyck, and Bowen Marsh.
Jon agrees to send Sam to Oldtown.
Jon discusses with Sam the war against the White Walkers, and his increasingly strained relationship with the rest of the Night's Watch. Sam asks for leave to take Gilly and her baby with him to Oldtown, where he will train to become a maester. Sam reasons that he is better suited to the life of a maester than a warrior, and that the Night's Watch needs to fill the gap left by the late Aemon Targaryen. Jon is reluctant, as he has few friends nowadays, and also points out that as a maester, Sam's vow of chastity will be doubly prevalent, before finding out that Sam and Gilly have had sex already (to Jon's amusement). Jon eventually agrees to Sam's request and sees him off.
Davos returns to Castle Black to beg Jon for soldiers - though this was really just a ruse to get Davos out of Stannis's camp, because he had become so desperate that he gave in to Melisandre's request to burn Shireen as a sacrifice.
Jon and Davos are heartbroken with the deaths of Shireen.
Jon points out that the Night's Watch, even if they do ally with Stannis, will not be enough, and the wildlings will not fight for Stannis as it isn't their fight. Their argument is broken up by the arrival of a wearied and addled Melisandre - who abandoned Stannis when it became apparent he would lose the Battle of Winterfell. When Davos questions her about Stannis and Shireen, she says nothing yet her sorrow is manifest, all but confirming the demise of his king and princess. Still forlorn and at a loss for words, Melisandre heads inside the castle, leaving both Jon and Davos horrified at the news.
After being stabbed by his own men, Jon dies.
That night while reading messages, Olly comes to Jon and tells him one of the wildlings knows of the whereabouts of his uncle Benjen, who has been missing since before the Great Ranging. Jon quickly follows Thorne to a gathering of his Watch brothers, only to find a sign marked "Traitor." Thorne, Yarwyck, Marsh and two other black brothers proceed to stab Jon while uttering, "For the Watch." As the wounded Jon kneels, gasping for breath, Olly tearfully comes forward and after a few moments of pause, stabs Jon in the heart and declares, "For the Watch." Jon collapses and dies from his wounds before the mutineers leave him out in the cold to bleed out.
Edd mourns over Jon's corpse, realizing that Thorne was the orchestrator of Jon's demise.
Upon seeing the body of his dead master, Ghost howls in mourning from his pen. His cries summon Davos, Edd and a handful of other black brothers who quickly move Jon's body to his quarters. They quickly realize that Thorne was most likely the orchestrator of Jon's demise, and free Ghost to help them protect Jon's body while Edd leaves to find Tormund and the Wildlings. Melisandre also looks at Jon's body and claims that she had seen a vision of him fighting at Winterfell, though Davos remains adamant that Jon is gone for good. Thorne later approaches Davos and the loyal brothers with a promise of amnesty if they throw their weapons down and surrender, though they refuse to back down, despite Thorne's threats of death if they don't.
Jon awakens after being resurrected by Melisandre.
After being rescued by Edd and the wildlings, Davos goes to Melisandre and asks if there's any magic she knows of that can resurrect Jon. Shaken by Stannis's death, she says all she believed in was a lie. Davos states that he wasn't asking the R'hllor for help, but Melisandre herself. Melisandre then performs a ritual with Jon's body: cleaning his wounds, cutting some of his hair, trimming his beard, and burning it in the fire, all while chanting in High Valyrian. Her attempts seem to be in vain. Tormund storms out in frustration, those remaining leave the room one by one, and after a few moments alone with Ghost, Jon awakens, gasping for air.
Jon is questioned on the afterlife.
Coming back to his senses, Jon is accosted by Davos and Melisandre. He reflects on his perceived failure in spite of doing the right thing, but after some encouragement from Davos, Jon gets dressed and enters the courtyard to the surprise of everyone present, reuniting with Tormund and Edd. Later, the leaders of the mutiny are rounded up for execution. After hearing last words from each (with the exception of Olly), Jon once again acts in accordance with his father's law that "the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword" and personally cuts the trapdoor rope, hanging them simultaneously.
Jon relinquishes his command to Edd.
Technically free from his vows, Jon then passes his cloak and command to Edd, declaring his intent to leave the Night's Watch.
Jon reunites with Sansa.
A day later, Jon packs his belongings. Edd chastises him for abandoning the Night's Watch despite the threat of the White Walkers looming, and reminds Jon of the oath he swore. Jon retorts by saying that he already died, and that he couldn't stay after what was done to him. His half-sister, Sansa arrives after escaping Ramsay with help from Theon, along with Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne. Jon is initially stunned when he sees Sansa but they tearfully embrace. Shortly thereafter, Jon and Sansa talk inside while Sansa eats. The two share their lives since leaving Winterfell, and reminisce about their childhoods. Sansa regretfully mentions how awful she was to Jon during their youth, and that she felt guilty about it for years. Jon shrugs it off as childhood mischief, though he forgives Sansa after she presses the issue. The pair acknowledge that their last haven is Winterfell, and even then, the Boltons are currently occupying it, but Jon is reluctant to fight again after everything he's been through.
Jon receives a threatening letter from Ramsay Bolton.
Later, as Jon eats with Sansa, Brienne, Podrick, Tormund, and Edd, he receives a letter from Ramsay, informing him that he is holding Rickon prisoner and furiously demanding the return of Sansa on threat of massacring Jon's allies, raping Sansa and murdering Rickon and Jon. Jon notes Ramsay's signature and Sansa deduces that Roose Bolton is dead. Jon asks Tormund how many men he has; Tormund says 2,000, not enough to fight Ramsay's 5,000 by themselves. With some urging from Sansa to rally the Northern Houses still loyal to the Starks, Jon resolves to take Ramsay down.
Jon plans his strategy against Ramsay.
While discussing strategy with Davos, Melisandre, Sansa, Brienne, Edd, and Tormund, Jon bitterly notes that they simply don't have the numbers to challenge the Boltons at present. Even though the three most powerful houses are already backing the Boltons, Jon suggests rallying the weaker houses, as their combined strength would give them a numerical advantage when combined with his current forces. When Sansa mentions Brynden Tully's recapture of Riverrun and the virtual guarantee of support from the Tullys, Jon is surprised that Sansa has such valuable information. Thereafter, Jon, Sansa, Tormund and Brienne leave Castle Black.
With help from Tormund, Jon speaks with the wildlings and asks for their help in the coming battle against Ramsay. Though Tormund stands by Jon, Dalba is skeptical, citing that they were allowed into the North to help fight against the White Walkers, not the Boltons. Jon agrees this isn't their fight and he shouldn't be asking for their help but points out that if Ramsay wins, he will wipe them all out anyway. Tormund speaks up for Jon, saying he died for the wildlings' well-being and if they don't help him, they are "cowards." The wildlings agree after Wun Wun stands up and says "Snow", confirming his allegiance. Jon, Sansa, and Davos later appeal to Lyanna Mormont, who previously refused to aid Stannis. Jon tells Lyanna of his friendship and service under her uncle, Jeor Mormont, while he was in the Night's Watch, though Lyanna initially refuses them, citing that Jon is a bastard and Sansa has been married into House Lannister and House Bolton. Jon reveals that Ramsay is holding Rickon hostage, and Davos manages to convince her that they need to defeat Ramsay in order to unite the North against the coming White Walkers. Lyanna agrees and supplies them with sixty-two men, the remaining force of House Mormont, promising that each will fight with the worth of ten men.
Jon fails to recruit Robett.
However, Jon fails to convince Robett Glover to pledge his allegiance to them, as he cites Robb's failures to protect the North from the ironborn and Jon's allegiance with the wildlings. Despite being heavily outnumbered, Jon remains adamant that they attack Winterfell before Ramsay gathers more men or the weather turns against them. Behind Jon's back, however, Sansa sends a letter calling for help.
Jon and Sansa attend a swift consultation with Ramsay.
Ramsay, Smalljon Umber, and Harald Karstark meet with Jon, Sansa, Tormund, Davos, and Lyanna at the battlefield the day before the battle. Jon offers Ramsay a chance to settle their dispute in one on one combat but Ramsay refuses, citing his almost certain victory due to his significantly larger army. Ramsay offers surrender terms saying he will pardon Jon for breaking his Night's Watch vows if he will hand Sansa over, which is ignored. Sansa asks for proof of Rickon's capture, which he provides by way of the decapitated head of his direwolf, Shaggydog. Sansa refuses the terms of surrender, and tells Ramsay he will die the following day before riding off.
Sansa criticizes Jon's underestimation of Ramsay.
Jon holds a meeting with Tormund and Davos, in which he discusses their battle plan to let the Boltons attack the middle of their formation in order to encircle their army. After the meeting, Sansa criticizes Jon for not listening to her advice and for attacking too early, insisting they need more men. Jon responds that this is the largest army they could possibly gather. Jon meets with Melisandre and insists to her not to bring him back if he should fall in the battle. Melisandre insists it's not her gift that has brought Jon back but the Lord of Light's and that only the Lord of Light can decide Jon's fate.
Jon attempts to save Rickon.
The armies gather the following morning as Ramsay brings out Rickon. Telling Rickon that they are playing a game, he tells Rickon to run towards Jon and as Rickon does so, Ramsay brings out a bow. Jon desperately rides out on a horse to try to save Rickon, as Ramsay fires arrows at him. Ramsay appears to have no intention of hitting Rickon with his few shots but eventually, just as Jon is about to reach his brother, Rickon is struck in the back with an arrow and killed.
Jon Snow fights against the Bolton army.
With Jon now defenseless in the middle of the battlefield and charging the Bolton cavalry alone, Bolton archers fire volleys of arrows in his direction. Davos commands the Stark cavalry to follow their commander and they begin their charge to meet the Bolton cavalry, narrowly saving Jon from being trampled and forcing them to abandon their initial strategy of luring the Bolton army into encirclement. After luring Jon's army forwards, Ramsay executes his own pincer movement with his infantry, completely encircling the Stark/Wildling army. The Bolton army continues to press their advantage, with interlocking spears from all directions forcing Jon's army closer and closer together.
Jon nearly suffocates as he is pushed beneath the tide of wildlings that are pushed into one another, but he eventually claws his way out, just in time to see Petyr Baelish and Sansa arrive with reinforcements courtesy of House Arryn. The Knights of the Vale quickly flank the encircling Bolton army, which is decimated. Jon makes eye contact with Ramsay as he retreats from the battlefield and chases him. Ramsay returns to Winterfell and closes the gates, confident that their opponent is not equipped for a siege of Winterfell, as long as they remain within the gates, and he readies his archers.
A bloodied Jon confronts Ramsay.
However, unexpectedly, with the help of Wun Wun, Jon's forces manage to breach the gates, and the remaining Bolton forces are defeated, although Wun Wun is severely injured by a barrage of arrows and spears, and eventually succumbs to Ramsay's final arrow, as Jon and Tormund watch on in horror, helpless to save their friend. Ramsay finally accepts Jon's offer to a one-on-one duel, while wielding a bow and arrow. Grabbing a nearby shield, Jon deftly blocks all of Ramsay's shots with it until he gets close enough to smack the bow out of Ramsay's hands and hit him to the ground, whereupon he furiously punches Ramsay's face into a bloody pulp.
Jon orders Rickon's burial.
Though it seems as if Jon will kill Ramsay, he stops when he sees Sansa, knowing she has as much right to revenge as he does. Jon orders Ramsay locked up and the remaining Boltons surrender, restoring House Stark's hold on Winterfell. Rickon's body is found and Jon orders his body buried in the crypt with Ned's bones. Sansa asks Jon for Ramsay's whereabouts, and he directs her to the kennels, where she kills Ramsay that night by setting his own hounds on him.
Jon banishes Melisandre.
In the aftermath, in the Great Hall with Melisandre, Jon recalls how his family sat at the main table during feasts while he was mostly made to sit away at another table, though they both agree that Jon was luckier than most bastard children. Davos then enters and openly accuses Melisandre of sacrificing Shireen, which Melisandre admits, though also pointing out that her magic still brought Jon back to life. Shocked at the revelation, Jon orders Melisandre to leave the North on threat of execution.
Jon and Sansa discuss the arrival of winter.
As Jon watches Melisandre riding away from the top of the castle's walls, he tells Sansa that the lord's chambers are being prepared for her and when Sansa tries to say Jon should have them, Jon responds he's not "a Stark" and that Sansa is the Lady of Winterfell. Jon continues that the battle was won because she brought the Knights of the Vale. Sansa apologizes for not telling him about the Vale army and when Jon asks her about Littlefinger, Sansa says he is not trustworthy. Jon responds he and Sansa must trust each other completely now and kisses her on the forehead. Sansa informs him that a white messenger-raven has just arrived from the Citadel, officially announcing that the years-long autumn is over, and winter has come. Jon wryly points out that their father always promised it would come some day.
Jon intently listens to Lyanna's rhetoric.
Some time later, the surviving heads of all the Northern vassal Houses convene in Winterfell's great hall, along with the lords of the Vale who came to their rescue with their large army (such as Yohn Royce and Littlefinger). They debate what to do next. Lyanna Mormont rises and shames those who did not join Jon and Sansa to help defeat Ramsay. She reiterates that the North knows no king but the King in the North, whose name is "Stark." Lyanna continues by saying that Jon may be a bastard but she doesn't care and he is a Stark to her. She hails Jon as the new King in the North. Wyman Manderly, whose son Wendel was killed at the Red Wedding, also rises to apologize, saying he didn't send aid before because he didn't want to send his men to die for nothing, but now Jon has avenged the Red Wedding.
Jon Snow is hailed as the new King in the North, the White Wolf.
Lord Wyman goes on to call Jon "the White Wolf" and he too proclaims him King. Robett Glover apologizes profusely, saying that he dishonored himself by not aiding him before, and he only didn't help Jon because he thought he had no hope of winning. Lord Cerwyn, whose parents were flayed alive by Ramsay and did not help out of fear, also swears his allegiance. All of the gathered lords of the North and the Vale draw and raise their swords and hail Jon as the new King in the North, echoing how Robb's bannermen previously proclaimed him king. Surprised, Jon shares a look with Sansa, who returns Jon's smile as he stands. However, Sansa's smile vanishes when she sees Littlefinger glowering in the corner of the hall.
Meanwhile, beyond the Wall, Bran experiences a vision about Jon's origins and realizes he is actually the son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark.
Jon at a meeting at Winterfell.
To prepare for the forthcoming conflict with the Night King, the newly declared King Jon orders his bannermen to conscript all able-bodied men and boys aged 10 to 60 for combat training. However, he notes that having only half of the population in the North fighting the White Walkers is not enough he also orders that every woman and girl should also be trained and equipped as well. He also asks that all maesters should start searching for dragonglass. He stresses that dragonglass is now more valuable than gold due to the threat of the White Walkers.
When Sansa advocates that the Umbers and Karstarks be stripped of their lands and titles as punishment for supporting Ramsay, Jon advocates forgiveness and insists that children will not be punished for the crimes of their fathers. Despite Sansa's continued insistence, Jon insists his decision is final and summons Ned Umber and Alys Karstark to reaffirm their loyalty to House Stark. They oblige and kneel before King Jon. Jon says that the mistakes of the past don't matter anymore.
In private, Jon chides Sansa for questioning his decision-making in front of the other lords and ladies and tells her to trust him. When Sansa reminds him that the late Joffrey did not tolerate dissent, Jon asks Sansa if she thinks he's like Joffrey. Sansa tells Jon that she knows he is nothing like Joffrey and assures Jon that he is good at leadership but she stresses that he must act wiser than Ned and Robb.
At Winterfell, Jon, Sansa, and Davos discuss Tyrion's letter that they have received. While Sansa suspects it might be a trap, Jon doesn't think so due to Tyrion ending the letter with the line "all dwarfs are bastards in their fathers' eyes", which Tyrion has told Jon in their first meeting years ago. Even so, Jon agrees that now is not the right time to go to Dragonstone. Davos opines that Daenerys will make a good ally in the war to come against the White Walkers.
Later Jon receives a raven from Sam informing him of his discovery of dragonglass on Dragonstone. At another gathering of the Northern lords, Jon informs them of Sam's discovery and Daenerys's invitation telling them that he has decided to accept. Many of the Lords, including Sansa, openly disapprove, but Jon stresses that they need both the dragonglass and powerful allies like Daenerys to have any chance at defeating the Night King. He names Sansa as Regent to rule in his place until he returns.
Jon sees through Petyr's manipulation.
In the crypts beneath Winterfell, Jon pays respects to Ned until he is interrupted by Littlefinger. Littlefinger tries to sweet-talk Jon, but he sees through his manipulation and starts to walk away. Littlefinger informs Jon of his love for Sansa, which causes him to lose his temper and start to strangle him. Jon threatens Littlefinger saying that he will kill him if he ever touches his sister. He then leaves the crypt and gives a farewell nod to Sansa, before joining Davos on the ride to White Harbor, where they will take a ship to Dragonstone.
Jon and Davos arrive on Dragonstone.
Jon and Davos arrive at Dragonstone, and are immediately greeted by Tyrion and Missandei. Upon meeting, Tyrion address Jon as the bastard of Winterfell while Jon addressed him as the "dwarf" of Casterly Rock. Jon observes that Tyrion has picked up some scars. Jon also introduces Davos while Tyrion introduces Missandei, who requests that they surrender their weapons. Jon and his entourage hand over their weapons to Daenerys's Dothraki guards.
Davos and Jon first lay eyes on Queen Daenerys Targaryen's dragons.
On the walk to the castle, Missandei walks with Davos and tells him that she comes from the island of Naath. Davos remarks that it was a paradise full of palm trees. Jon and Tyrion talk about Sansa's marriage to Tyrion. Tyrion assures Jon that it was a sham and remarks that she is a lot smarter than she lets on, which Jon agrees. While Jon is aware of the fate of the previous Starks who had met with the Mad King, Jon insists that he is not a Stark. Jon and Davos are startled at the sight of Drogon, Rhaegal and Viserion flying low over the causeway and dive to the ground, while an amused Missandei and Tyrion retain their composure. Offering Jon a hand up, Tyrion says he wishes he could tell Jon he'll get used to the dragons – but no one is quite used to them except their mother, who is waiting for Jon within.
Jon clasps eyes on the Dragon Queen.
In the throne room, Missandei introduces Daenerys's many titles while Davos introduces Jon simply as King in the North. Daenerys thanks Jon for traveling so far but insists that he is a mere Lord. Davos begs to differ but Daenerys responds that there has been no King in the North ever since Torrhen Stark bent the knee to Aegon the Conqueror, and adds that an oath lasts for perpetuity. Daenerys then reiterates her demand for Jon to bend the knee but he refuses. When Daenerys accuses him of breaking faith with House Targaryen, Jon reminds her that the Mad King burnt his grandfather and uncle.
Daenerys apologizes for her father's actions and stresses that children should not be punished for the crimes of their parents. She then urges Jon to renew the historic allegiance between their two great houses. Jon expresses agreement with Daenerys's view that children should not be punished for the crimes of their parents, but argues that he is not beholden to his ancestors' oaths. Jon tells her that he has come for her help. Daenerys reminds him that she has three dragons and Dothraki who have pledged themselves to her. Getting to the point of his trip, Jon likens the fighting between the Great Houses to children squabbling over a game. Jon points out that the Army of the Dead is their true enemy. Daenerys is skeptical but Tyrion vouches for Jon. Jon says that they need to make cause to fight against the Army of the Dead.
Daenerys explains her faith in herself to Jon.
Daenerys asks Jon if his father knew that his friend Robert had sent assassins to kill her as a baby; overlooking the fact that Eddard had opposed Robert Baratheon's assassination plot and Robert had rescinded said plot on his deathbed (though, she may be unaware of that). Daenerys recounts that she was targeted by assassins, enslaved, raped, and defiled but that her faith in herself rather the gods kept her going. Daenerys talks about the miracle of her dragons' hatching and the Dothraki crossing the Narrow Sea. When Daenerys reiterates that she is destined to rule the Seven Kingdoms, Jon retorts that she will be ruling over a graveyard.
Jon and Daenerys discuss his kingship.
Tyrion says they cannot split their forces. Davos then speaks up for his king and tells Daenerys that Jon won the support of the wildlings and fought the White Walkers. Davos also mentions that Jon came back from the dead. Davos says that it doesn't matter who bends the knee. Tyrion doesn't see the point of Jon's refusal to submit. When Jon disputes Daenerys's claims to queenship, Daenerys responds that he is in open rebellion since he has declared himself King in the North. Daenerys then receives a message from Varys. Daenerys orders Missandei to give Jon and his men food and lodging. When Jon asks if he is a prisoner, she says not yet.
Jon examines Dragonstone.
Later, Jon and Tyrion discuss his predicament. Jon is unhappy his ship was taken away and is trapped on Dragonstone while the White Walkers and the Night King still pose a threat. Tyrion says he trusts the word of Jeor Mormont and Jon. Jon asks Tyrion how he can convince people about the existence of things which they don't believe exist. Jon wants to help his people and is frustrated with the deadlock. Tyrion encourages Jon not to give up. When Jon remarks that he is a fool for going south, Tyrion reassures him that the Mad King's daughter is not her father and has protected people from "monsters," telling him to speak with her servants. Tyrion asks if there is something he can do to help Jon.
Dany allows Jon to mine for the Dragonglass.
While Daenerys is watching over her dragons, she is joined by Jon. Daenerys tells Jon that she named her dragons Rhaegal and Viserion after her brothers Rhaegar and Viserys Targaryen, noting Jon's own losses and Jon nods. When Daenerys says people thought dragons were gone forever and perhaps they should be re-thinking what they believe they know, Jon realizes that Tyrion has been talking with her too. Daenerys tells Jon she is determined to remove Cersei. She allows Jon to mine the dragonglass and will provide what he needs for this. When Jon asks if she believes in the Night King and White Walkers, she only responds, "You better get to work, Jon Snow." Later, Jon leads Daenerys on a tour of the long-abandoned Valyrian dragonglass mine that Samwell Tarly told him about. The mine is ancient and impressive, used by the First Men long before the Valyrians came to Dragonstone. But this is not why Jon asked Daenerys to come.
As they proceed deeper into the mines led by torchlight, Jon shows her cave paintings they discovered left behind by the Children of the Forest, filled with arcane magical symbols. Daenerys is stunned that the mythical Children stood where they are standing now, thousands upon thousands of years ago, long before mankind ever arrived in Westeros. Jon says this isn't exactly true, leading her into another chamber, this one filled with narrative drawings of the Children and the First Men. Daenerys wonders if the Children and First Men fought each other, but Jon then shows her ancient carvings of the White Walkers themselves, one of which Jon recognizes as an image of the Night King. Jon explains that the Children of the Forest and the First Men only managed to drive off the White Walkers the first time during the Long Night because they chose to join together to fight off their own extinction, and that is the choice he and Daenerys have now.
Jon still wants Daenerys to ally with him to defeat the army of the dead, but Daenerys still wants him to bend the knee. He insists that the North won't accept a southern ruler again after everything they've gone through. Daenerys urges that they will if their king does, and asks Jon if their survival isn't more important than his pride. When Daenerys receives word about Casterly Rock and Highgarden, she becomes frustrated about her constant defeat and wants to attack the Red Keep with her dragons immediately. Tyrion advises against this, and Daenerys asks Jon for his thoughts. Jon tells Daenerys that he never thought that it was possible for dragons to live again, and that people follow Daenerys because she has done the impossible. He then warns her that if she uses her dragons to melt castles and burn cities, she will be just the same as those before her. Afterwards, Jon reunited with Theon who has survived his encounter with Euron Greyjoy. The anxious Theon asks Jon if Sansa is all right. Jon proceeds to scold Theon that what he did for Sansa was the only reason why he is still alive.
Some time later, Jon witnesses Daenerys returning to Dragonstone on Drogon. Drogon approaches Jon who does not flinch at the dragon and starts to pet him, much to Daenerys’s amazement. While they talk about leadership styles, they are approached by Jorah Mormont who has returned from Oldtown, who Daenerys tearfully reunites with. Jon then receives a letter regarding the army of the dead approaching Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Tyrion proposes a plan to capture a wight to prove Cersei about the existence of the White Walkers. Jon agrees and departs with Davos, Jorah, and Gendry.
Jon arrives at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and heads out with a ranging party consisting of Tormund, Jorah Mormont, Gendry, the Hound, Thoros, Beric Dondarrion, and a few others on a mission to capture a wight. They succeed but half of the party, including Thoros, end up being killed as they are attacked by wights, prompting Daenerys to intervene with all three of her dragons and leading to the death of Viserion by the Night King, who later resurrects the beast for his own use. Despite this devastating loss, Jon continues to fight and nearly drowns in the cold waters beneath the ice. Though he manages to pull himself out, he is all alone and nearly overwhelmed by the wights until a last-minute intervention by his long-lost uncle Benjen, who tells him to flee on his horse while he buys time for his nephew to escape. While riding away on horseback, Jon watches his uncle being overwhelmed by the undead. He makes it back to Eastwatch and is brought aboard the ship with Daenerys, Davos, and Sandor.
In the Narrow Sea, Jon wakes to find Daenerys sitting at his bedside. Jon apologizes for the disastrous ranging party and the fact it caused Viserion's death, but Daenerys tells him not to apologize because she now knows that the Army of the Dead is real. Overcome with emotion, she tells Jon that the dragons are the only children she will ever have, and vows that she and Jon will together destroy the Night King. Jon thanks Daenerys, addressing her as "Dany", and Daenerys realizes that the last person to address her by that name was her older brother (and Jon's uncle) Viserys, who Daenerys remembers as not being a good person. Jon apologizes and asks if "my Queen" would be more appropriate, agreeing to bend the knee. Daenerys asks Jon what the Northern lords loyal to him will make of this. Jon assures her they will come to see her for the good person she is, as he already has. Daenerys is touched by his statement and they take each other's hand for a moment. They gaze into each other's eyes, before Daenerys suddenly pulls away and tells him to get some rest and leaves him alone.
After recovering from his ordeal, Jon and the rest of his allies head to the Dragonpit to parley with the Lannisters. When Cersei dismisses their warnings about the Night King and his army as a ploy to trick her into lowering her defenses, they rattle the captured wight into lunging for her, making her and her allies see once and for all that the threat from beyond the Wall is real. Jon steps forward and picks up the wight's discarded hand, using a torch provided by Davos to demonstrate how fire can be used to stop them. He then uses a dragonglass dagger to the heart to end the wight's upper half, bluntly stating that if they don't win the coming war, such a fate awaits every person in Westeros. Seemingly convinced, Cersei immediately offers terms: satisfied that Daenerys is concerned with the Army of the Dead, Cersei will not withdraw her troops, but will guarantee that they will not hinder the Targaryen or Northern forces in any way during the battle against the White Walkers. She refuses to deal with Daenerys at all, however, and calls on Jon, as King in the North and Ned Stark's son, to keep the truce and to stay out of any future conflict between Cersei and Daenerys. Jon, however, says that he cannot serve two queens - and reveals to all assembled that he has already declared for Daenerys, infuriating all three Lannisters present. Declaring that there will be no truce if it is just her and Daenerys, Cersei storms out, content to let the Starks and Targaryens battle the undead alone and then deal with whoever emerges victorious from that conflict.
Daenerys and Tyrion rip into Jon over his ill-advised action. Tyrion suggests that learning to lie just a little might be a good skill. Jon responds by arguing that while such an attitude may or may not have contributed to getting his father killed, if no one is willing to speak the truth, then everyone's word is worthless, and lies will not help them win the coming fight. While Tyrion goes to talk to Cersei, Daenerys and Jon discuss the dragons and how her ancestors caged them, and in turn, her family become less impressive as the power of the dragons waned, that they became like everyone else. Jon responds that Daenerys is not like everyone else. When Daenerys confides she was made infertile by Mirri Maz Duur, Jon questions this, particularly when she admits it was Mirri Maz Duur who told her she was infertile. Their conversation is interrupted by the return of all three Lannisters. Cersei has agreed to work with Daenerys, but not by keeping her troops back: the Lannister army will march north to fight alongside the Starks and Targaryens. Little do Jon and Daenerys know that Cersei has no intention of keeping her promise, and that she intends to let them fight the White Walkers on their own and mop up whoever wins with the help of the Golden Company. Jaime refuses to back down from his pledge to help fight the White Walkers and defies his sister-lover by traveling north. Whether he will warn Jon and Daenerys of Cersei's plan remains to be seen.
Later, as the two of them ride a ship to White Harbor, Jon enters Daenerys's cabin where the two of them begin to consummate their relationship, still unaware that they are aunt and nephew.
Meanwhile, back at Winterfell, Sam and Gilly arrive. The former visits Bran and the two of them discuss Jon's origin: he was born to Rhaegar and Lyanna at a Tower in Dorne, and is not a Snow at all, but a Sand. Sam realizes that that isn't true either, recalling the entry from High Septon Maynard's private journal about annulling Rhaegar's marriage. Bran expressed his doubts, but Sam reiterates the private nature of the journal and encourages Bran to use Greensight to confirm it. To his own surprise, Bran easily finds the wedding, where he sees a clearly happy Lyanna wedding Rhaegar in a Faith of the Seven ceremony before a Heart tree. Seeing forward to the Tower of Joy, Bran finally hears Lyanna's dying words. Now piecing the truth together, Bran declares that Rhaegar never raped Lyanna. She loved him and ran off with him, and bore him a son, Aegon Targaryen, making "Jon" not only legitimate but the rightful heir to the Iron Throne.
Jon returns to Winterfell with the Targaryen forces.
Upon arrival in the North, Jon and Daenerys, along with their combined forces, march through Winter town on their way to Winterfell. The townspeople cast Daenerys many suspicious looks, and Jon reminds her that Northerners have a long-established distrust of outsiders. Upon arriving at Winterfell, he introduces her to Sansa. Jon and Daenerys later ride Daenerys's dragons, Jon riding Rhaegal and Daenerys riding Drogon. They find a waterfall where Jon used to hunt as a child and they share an intimate moment.
Jon rides Rhaegal for the first time.
Later, Jon meets up with Sansa, who is angry that Jon bent the knee to Daenerys. Jon says titles are not important when the Army of the Dead is coming and he is certain Daenerys will make a good queen for them. Sansa asks Jon if he bent the knee to save the North or because he loves Daenerys. Afterward, Daenerys and Jon see the dragons and she invites him to ride atop Rhaegal. While he initially finds it difficult, he soon gets used to it and flies alongside Daenerys. After landing, Jon and Daenerys kiss, which is interrupted by the dragons. Later, Jon reunites with Arya, he finds out that she is more loyal to Sansa than the Targaryen queen.
Later in the catacombs when he is lighting candles in remembrance of his family, Jon reunites with Sam. Sam asks him whether Jon knew that Daenerys executed his brother and father. Though Jon is surprised by this news, he tells Sam he has also executed men who disobeyed him. Sam responds Jon has also spared men when they've refused to kneel. Jon says he wasn't a king, prompting Sam to respond that Jon is a king. Jon responds that he gave up his crown. However, Sam reveals to Jon that he is the King of the Seven Kingdoms as Aegon Targaryen, the son of Rhaegar and Lyanna. An angry Jon refuses to believe this as his father, Ned Stark, would never lie to him, but Sam says Ned lied to protect Jon. Jon insists Daenerys is their queen. Sam asks Jon if Daenerys would give up her crown for her people.
Jon plans the defense of Winterfell.
The Stark and Targaryen forces prepare to fight the dead near Winterfell. Bran offers himself as bait to lure the Night King for an ambush in the Godswood of Winterfell, and it is decided the dragons will protect Bran in the godswood. Later, when Jon is visiting Lyanna's statue in the crypts, Daenerys finds him. They share a moment and when she mentions her brother raped Lyanna, Jon tells Daenerys that Rhaegar didn't rape her, they were in love. Jon takes her hand and reveals his true parentage to her. Daenerys is skeptical and claims it is convenient that this came from Bran and Sam, Jon's brother and best friend. They are interrupted by sounds of horns which signal the arrival of the Night King's army.
During the Battle of Winterfell, Jon rides atop Rhaegal and leads him in fighting the dead. He and Drogon battle the Night King and the undead Viserion with Rhaegal being heavily injured. Rhaegal is able to land on the ground but falls unconscious due to his injuries while landing, and Jon is knocked off from the dragon's top. He is wounded during the battle and is pinned down by Viserion. He manages to pull himself out and makes his way to Godswood to fight the Night King. On his way, he notices the army of the dead obliterating everyone fighting at Winterfell. Just when he is about to be overrun by the Wights himself, they seem to fall off to the ground one by one as the Night King is defeated by Arya.
After the battle, Jon leads a mass cremation for the dead and is hailed by the wildlings during the celebrations of the victory. After the celebrations, Daenerys meets up with Jon in his room. Jon offers his condolences for Jorah's death, and Daenerys affirms that Jorah loved her but she couldn't love him the way he wanted, not the way she loves Jon. She and Jon begin to kiss, preparing to have sex but Jon stops himself. Daenerys laments that Jon told her the truth of his parentage and is fearful people will press his claim against hers for the Iron Throne. Jon is vehement that he does not want the throne. Daenerys tells Jon it doesn't matter what he personally wants, people will press his claim. Jon tells Daenerys he will refuse and on his knee, declares Daenerys will always be his queen. Daenerys insists that he must never reveal his parentage to anyone but Jon tells Daenerys he owes his sisters the truth. He is certain they can all live happily together, but Daenerys says the only way that can happen is if Jon never tells the truth about himself and leaves.
While making the plans for attacking King's Landing, Daenerys wants to take the Red Keep, while Tyrion and Jon vouch for a siege in hopes this will reduce casualties. Sansa opts for letting their forces rest before charging into another battle. Jon, however, assures the queen that they will obey her command. Afterward, Sansa and Arya state that they do not trust her. When Jon defends Daenerys and says that they only have to get to know her, Sansa and Arya reply they never will as she is not one of them. Jon says he has never been a Stark, but they both insist he is. Pained, Jon looks at Bran, who says that it's his choice to tell them. Jon makes them both swear to never tell anyone the secret he is about to reveal to them. After they do, then at a loss for words, Jon tells Bran to reveal the truth of his parentage to them.
Varys discusses the Iron Throne with Jon.
Jon marches to King's Landing along the Kingsroad with the surviving Stark, Arryn, and Dothraki forces unopposed while the Unsullied reach the capital ahead of them. Hopes for a peaceful surrender, however, are quickly extinguished with Missandei's execution. Later, Jon separates from his forces after crossing the Trident and heads back to Dragonstone. Varys informs him about Daenerys's unstable state of mind and is requested by him to take the Iron Throne, but he refuses.
Jon discusses his parentage with Daenerys.
Daenerys later has Varys executed for treason. When Varys is burned alive by Drogon's flames, Jon is disturbed by the execution via fire. Later, Jon comes to see Daenerys, and she blames Jon for telling Sansa about her parentage for what happened. Jon states he doesn't want the crown which is what he told Varys, with Daenerys replying Sansa betrayed his trust and is as responsible for Varys' death as she is. Daenerys confides that the people of Westeros love Jon more than her, that all she has here is fear, not love. Jon tells Daenerys that he loves her and she will always be his queen. As she asks if that's all she is to him, the two kiss but Jon breaks it off, still hesitant over their blood ties. Daenerys accepts this but resigns herself to ruling by fear.
Jon leads his forces into King's Landing.
During the Battle of King's Landing, the Golden Company is caught off-guard by Drogon and as a result, is decimated by the charging Northern and Targaryen forces. The Lannister forces and people of King's Landing surrender. However, Daenerys and Drogon burn the streets filled with people as both the Targaryen and Northern forces start slaughtering the surrendered Lannister forces and civilians alike, as Jon tries in vain to hold them back. As a result, the Lannister forces clash again and Jon is forced to fight to deflect their attacks. He is horrified by the carnage that occurs despite his calls to stop it, and kills one of his soldiers trying to rape a woman. When the wildfire caches stored below the city years ago by Aerys start erupting due to Drogon's dragonfire, Jon orders his forces to evacuate.
Jon confronts Grey Worm over executing surrendered Lannister soldiers.
After the battle, Jon, Davos, and Tyrion observe in horror the ash-covered devastation wrought by Daenerys, with charred bodies strewn everywhere. Tyrion leaves for the Red Keep alone, and rejects Jon's suggestions to take some of his soldiers as guards. A little while later, Jon confronts Grey Worm and the Unsullied who are executing remaining surrendered Lannister soldiers. Grey Worm states that he has been ordered by Daenerys to execute all who followed Cersei. When Jon tries to stop him, the Unsullied and Stark soldiers almost come to blows, but Davos defuses the situation by telling Jon to take it up with the queen. As they walk away, they witness Grey Worm executing the captives.
Arya warns Jon against Daenerys.
At the Red Keep, Jon witnesses Daenerys giving a speech to her victorious forces, in which she declares she "liberated" the people of King's Landing and will "liberate" the world. Tyrion disavows his loyalty and being arrested for releasing Jaime. He then reunites with an injured Arya. Surprised, he asks why she was in King's Landing, to which Arya responds that she came to kill Cersei, but Daenerys got there first. She warns Jon that he will always be a danger to her because of his parentage and Sansa will never bend the knee to her.
Tyrion pleads with Jon to take action against Daenerys.
A while later, Jon visits the imprisoned Tyrion, who expects he'll be executed soon. Tyrion admits that Varys was right all along about Daenerys. He warns Jon that she won't stop until she has "liberated" the world and rules it all. He recounts her atrocities but Jon states it happened because of the trauma from the loss of loved ones she suffered. Tyrion states he knows Jon doesn't want to betray her and knows Jon loves her, he loved her too. He admits he is asking Jon to do a terrible thing, but advises him to take action because she is now the greatest threat to the people. He warns that he'll always be in danger because of his parentage, and asks if his sisters will ever bend the knee. Jon responds they'll always be loyal, but Tyrion reasons that Sansa told him about his parentage because she doesn't want Daenerys as the Queen. Jon responds that she can't choose, but Tyrion states he can and has to do it now.
Jon holds Daenerys after assassinating her.
Troubled, Jon walks to the Great Hall and finds Daenerys standing by the Iron Throne. Jon confronts her about her atrocities during the battle. She displays no remorse, believing it was necessary to achieve her ends. Jon tries to dissuade her from this path, urging forgiveness for Tyrion and those in King's Landing. Daenerys rejects this, saying they can't hide behind mercy and states the world they need can't be built by those loyal to the current one. Jon says they need a world of mercy and Daenerys assures that the new world she has in mind will be a good one and she knows what is good. When Jon asks about others who think they know what is good, she responds they don't get to choose. She tries to convince him to be by her side to build her new world and an anguished Jon reaffirms his allegiance to her. As they share a passionate kiss, Jon reluctantly stabs her. Daenerys collapses and dies in his arms as Jon grieves over her. Drogon approaches them after witnessing this while Jon gently lays her on the ground. Seeing his mother dead on the floor, Drogon becomes enraged and faces Jon. Jon prepares for his death, but the dragon instead melts the Iron Throne and flies away with her corpse.
Jon converses with Tyrion while being held as a prisoner.
The Unsullied imprison Jon for Daenerys's assassination. At the Great Council of 305 AC, where Jon and Tyrion are to be put on trial, only Tyrion is present with Grey Worm telling Sansa the Unsullied will decide Jon's fate. Sansa objects. Tyrion convinces Grey Worm to allow the new King of the Andals and the First Men to decide Jon's punishment since the crime was committed in Westeros. Ultimately, Bran is elected as the king and decides to exile Jon to the Night's Watch in order to avoid a war between the North and the Unsullied. The new Hand of the King, Tyrion, later visits a dejected Jon and informs him he will be exiled to the Night's Watch. When Jon asks if there still is a Night's Watch, Tyrion responds the world still needs a refuge for bastards and broken men. Jon asks if what he did was right and Tyrion responds they did it together. Jon says killing Daenerys doesn't feel right. Tyrion tells Jon to ask him again in 10 years. Jon tells Tyrion he doesn't think they'll ever meet again but Tyrion responds he might want to piss off the top of the Wall after serving a few years as the Hand.
Jon bids farewell to his family.
While being taken into exile by two wandering crows, Jon bids farewell to Bran, Sansa, and Arya at the docks. Jon congratulates Sansa on gaining independence for the North and assures her she will be a good leader when she laments they lost their king before they hug. Jon then tells Arya that she could to visit him at Castle Black, but Arya states that she isn't going back North and plans to explore the uncharted seas to the west of Westeros before the two tearfully hug. Finally, Jon kneels before the new king Bran and apologizes for not being there when he needed him, but Bran states he was "exactly where he was supposed to be."
Jon rides north of the Wall, accompanied by Tormund and the wildlings.
Some time later, Jon arrives at Castle Black and reunites with Tormund and the wildlings. Later, he dons the black cloak of a sworn brother of the Night's Watch and reunites with Ghost. He then leaves with Ghost and the wildlings for lands north of the Wall, watching forlornly as the gate to Castle Black closes behind him, and then rides into the Haunted Forest alongside them.
Since he was raised by Ned at Winterfell, Jon has adopted a clear moral compass and a true sense of honor, which he tries his hardest to abide by even when he must make a difficult decision, especially after he became Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. He has always admired and idolized his father, but due to Catelyn's cold disdain for Jon, Eddard was careful not to give him more attention than his lawful children by Catelyn. Catelyn was never actively mean to Jon, but because he wasn't her own son she intentionally ignored him (as is common for bastard children), meaning that Jon grew up without a mother-figure. Nor did Jon consider Catelyn's behavior to be unusual or unexpected: it is rare for a noble to raise their bastard child alongside their lawful children, and his presence was a great insult to her honor.
While his interactions with Catelyn remained awkward or nonexistent, he was close with his half-siblings, particularly Robb and Arya. Robb was of the same age as Jon so they became playmates and comrades in training, while due to her tomboyish personality Arya was also something of a social misfit like Jon, which they bonded over. His closeness with Brandon and Rickon was proved when the latter had to leave Winterfell and Master Luwin advised them to go, Castle Black, where the old man was sure that their half-brother would keep them safe. With Sansa on the other hand, according to the talk they had when they reunited at Castle Black, the friendship has never been deep as those between Jon and the other siblings. Since then, however, Sansa proves to have great faith in her half-brother by standing up for him when he is King in the North and, when she discovers his true parentage, by seeing him as the best candidate to become King of the Seven Kingdoms. Also, when Jon is forced to join again the Night's Watch, Sansa shows great sorrow and thinks that sending Jon away is both a great unfairness and a great loss for the North.
Like many bastard children, Jon had to learn to grow up quickly. This made Jon mature and perceptive beyond his age, so he could navigate his complicated relationships within the Stark household. His bastard status has also made Jon something of a loner, solemn and somber with a desire to prove himself to society and to his father. Jon thought that the best way for a bastard in his position to gain honor and respect was to join the Night's Watch, emulating his uncle Benjen, because past social status is ignored after joining the Watch. Despite his introverted demeanor, Jon is very compassionate and protective of his fellow outcasts such as Sam, Grenn, and Pyp.
In many ways, Jon has been unusually lucky for a bastard child, given how rare it is for a lord to raise one in his own castle alongside his lawful children. For all of Jon's misgivings about not knowing his mother and Catelyn ignoring and shunning him, he was loved by his father and siblings, was never poor or hungry, but lived in a castle and had a noble's upbringing. Jon was formally educated by Maester Luwin and was trained in combat by Ser Rodrik Cassel.
Jon is an excellent swordsman and a fierce fighter. He was capable of quickly slaying numerous men in battle, and taking on highly-skilled warriors much bigger than himself such as Styr. His skills initially made him somewhat arrogant when he was a new recruit at Castle Black until Tyrion pointed out that the other recruits were all far less fortunate than he was, with some of them having never trained with a sword in their lives. This humbles Jon, and he changes his behavior to be the champion of the other downtrodden recruits and helps train them by walking them through the swordplay techniques he knows.
The Starks were an interfaith household, with Eddard and Catelyn's children being exposed to not only the religion of the Old Gods of the Forest worshiped by most Northmen, but also Catelyn's devout adherence to the Faith of the Seven. Because Jon had no real interaction with Catelyn and revered his father Eddard, he was not exposed to the Seven but proudly keeps to the Old Gods, and honors the traditions of his First Men ancestors. When Jon took his vow to become a member of the Night's Watch, he chose to do so in front of a heart tree, sacred to the Old Gods.
Jon is also fairly shy around women, and as he revealed to Samwell, he was a virgin when he joined the Night's Watch. While he was attractive enough, as a bastard son with nothing to inherit he had no realistic marriage prospects with noblewomen. Jon was even wary of having sex with random girls or prostitutes (as Theon did) because he was terrified of fathering a bastard of his own: having lived his life as a bastard, he felt that it wasn't a life another child should have to go through.
However, death has changed Jon. Despite his honorable convictions and previous commitment to the Night's Watch, his experience of being murdered by his own men and then revived has made Jon somewhat more cynical and nihilistic. No longer believing in himself and his ability to face the coming threat, due to being murdered for doing what he thought was right - Jon abandons the Night's Watch, despite knowing full well how dangerous the threat looming beyond the Wall really is. He loses his determination about fighting and becomes much more lonely and melancholic only speaking when he hasn't any other choice. Also, Jon feels remorse for hanging his former steward Olly, even though the latter did murder both him and the woman he loved. While he is wary of conflict since his return, his love for his family has brought him back into the fight. To this end, Jon chooses his family over the Night's Watch - a choice he once attempted to make when Robb marched off to war but forsook in the past. When Ramsay decides to play a "game" with Rickon, Jon once again chooses his family by attempting to save his little brother's life, even at the cost of his own life and battle plans.
The revelation that he is a Targaryen has made no difference to Jon; he has remained loyal to his roots as a Northman and a Stark.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Jon is 14 years old when the story begins. Jon resembles his father with a lean build, long face, and gray eyes, more than any of his true-born children (except Arya, to an extent, but she is a girl, while he looks very much like a young version of Eddard). Jon loves his half-siblings and among them, is closest with Robb and Arya.
Unlike in the television series, Jon has never been on good terms with Theon. Jon feels Theon is an "ass" and Theon feels Jon is jealous of his highborn status. Meanwhile, Theon resents Jon for being bastard-born but treated better than him by Eddard.
Eddard refuses to reveal who Jon's mother is, which wounds and haunts Jon. Jon often wonders about his mother and why Eddard will not say anything about her. While Jon loves and is loved by his family, he feels a sense of alienation from them because of his bastard status and the coldness of Eddard's wife. Catelyn views Jon as an interloper in her family and resents that Eddard brought Jon to live at Winterfell with her true-born children.
At the feast to welcome King Robert, Jon is unable to sit with his family as he usually does because Catelyn fears that the king or queen would take insult at sharing a table with a bastard. Instead, Jon sits with squires at another table. This coincides with the visit by his uncle Benjen, and (emboldened by having more than he is used to drinking) makes Jon realize that his future may lie outside Winterfell's walls. His uncle frustrates Jon by telling him to wait a few years before deciding, but when Eddard decides to go to King's Landing, Catelyn refuses to allow Jon to remain behind at Winterfell. Catelyn was relieved because when Jon joined the Watch he forsook any right to inheritance, and could never challenge her own sons for Winterfell. Nor did Catelyn have to pressure Jon into joining: he went to the Wall of his own volition, albeit because he had been raised on legends of the former glories of the Night's Watch.
There is no mention in the books that Jon caught the pox as a child and Catelyn, out of guilt, prayed for him to survive: in A Game of Thrones, Catelyn states outright that she wishes it was Jon who had fallen from the broken tower in Bran's place.
Jon is crestfallen to discover that the Watch is now a glorified penal colony, full of murderers, rapers, and other outcasts, and few of the recruits are like his uncle.
The prostitute character Ros was invented for the TV series, so Jon never tried to have sex with her only to back down from it in the end out of fear of fathering a bastard - though the novels do have Jon make some similar statements that he is horrified at the thought of creating bastard children of his own who would be looked down upon with nothing to inherit, as he grew up, thus the overall point that Jon didn't really have any experience with women before joining the Watch basically stands.
Jon severely burned his right hand when he killed the wight Othor to save Jeor Mormont's life. While he lost no function in it, as a result of the burns his right hand and some of his forearm were left covered in scar tissue, which would never heal back to normal. People tend not to notice, because in the cold temperatures at the Wall and beyond, Jon and other members of the Night's Watch usually wear heavy gloves over both hands.
Jon didn't see a White Walker taking one of Craster's sons in the forest as he did in the TV series. When Mance Rayder later asks him why he would betray the Night's Watch to join the wildlings, Jon instead point out that it is because he will always be treated with scorn as a bastard, pointing out how back at the feast of Winterfell he wasn't allowed to sit at the main table with the "real" Starks.
After Jon kills Orell, part of Orell's consciousness survives by warging into his eagle, after which Orell's mind controlling the eagle's body attempts to claw out Jon's eye with its talons (which occurred in Season 3 of the TV series). The attack leaves permanent deep scars over Jon's eye. However, rather than disfiguring him, characters within the narrative point out that they think it makes him ruggedly handsome. Stereotypical Fantasy heroes usually never get significantly hurt, at worst getting scars running over their eyes which make them look "cool." Author George R.R. Martin spent much of the books deconstructing or subverting traditional Fantasy literature stereotypes, making Westeros a gritty and realistic setting where instead of all of the main characters miraculously surviving through battles unscathed, some are horribly maimed (i.e. Jaime and Tyrion do not get dashingly roguish scars over their eyes - they outright lose their sword hand and nose, respectively). In contrast, Jon actually does behave like a traditionally heroic character, but put in the dark setting of Westeros - and as a result, Jon does end up getting "cool hero scars" over his eye.
The subplot in Season 4 in which Jon returns to Craster's Keep to finish off the mutineers there (that never occurs in the novels), and nearly encounters Bran again, was an invention of the TV series: in the books, the Battle of Castle Black begins soon after Jon returns, but due to the way the TV seasons were split, Jon returned at the end of Season 3 - even though the battle would only take place as the climax at the end of Season 4. Jon, therefore, had to have something to do in the earlier parts of the season.
Unbeknownst to Jon, late in the third novel Robb names him as his heir: since Jeyne Westerling has not given him heirs yet, Bran and Rickon are reported as dead, Arya is missing, and Sansa was forced to marry Tyrion - the Lannisters could lay claim to the North. Robb realizes that he needs to name a new heir, because if he dies there will be no obvious successor to challenge the Lannister's claim through Sansa, and decides Jon is the best choice - given that Robb is a king, he can simply issue a decree legitimizing Jon. Catelyn pleads with Robb not to choose Jon, and instead pick a very distant cousin from House Royce, but Robb does not listen to her. He signs the decree in the presence of several of his northern lords as witnesses. However, it is unknown what has become of the decree, as it is no longer mentioned in the books. It is speculated that Robb has given it to Maege Mormont and Galbart Glover, whom he sent on a mission to seek out Howland Reed (therefore they do not attend the Red Wedding), but their current location is unknown. So far in the books, Jon has not received the decree, and has no idea of its existence.
Jon is tempted by Stannis's offer to make him Lord of Winterfell, but feels guilt and shame over this due to his love for his lost trueborn siblings, whom Jon believes have all passed away (later, in A Dance with Dragons, Jon becomes aware Sansa is alive, although he does not know her current whereabouts, and tells Stannis that Winterfell belongs to her by right). Jon likewise has reservations because he is an illegitimate son and is bound by his oath to the Watch. Stannis assures Jon he can legitimize him, and Winterfell can be rebuilt. As for the oath: Melisandre tells Jon "R'hllor is the only true god. A vow sworn to a tree has no more power than one sworn to your shoes. Open your heart and let the light of the Lord come in. Burn these weirwoods, and accept Winterfell as a gift of the Lord of Light." Jon thinks it over, recalling how when he was very young, too young to understand what it meant to be a bastard, he used to dream that one day Winterfell might be his. Later, when he was older, he had been ashamed of those dreams. Now, in order to claim his father's castle, he must turn against his father's gods. The more Jon thinks about it, he grows to loathe the notion of destroying the weirwood of Winterfell. He looks at Ghost, whose white fur and red eyes remind him of a heart tree, and Jon remembers finding the direwolf pups in the late summer snow with Robb - five grey, black, and brown pups for the five trueborn children and a sixth one, "white as snow." This is what makes him reject the legitimization offer. Had Jon accepted the offer, it is doubtful the people of the north would have accepted him as their Lord - who is both an oathbreaker and a defiler of the old gods.
In the books, after Jon is elected the new Lord Commander, he knows he must deal with Slynt and Thorne, who did their best to get him killed and will probably undermine him. Jon wouldn't abuse his authority in order to settle the score with them (especially with Slynt, who took part in Ned's downfall and subsequent death, which Jon is aware of); he firmly reminds himself that once someone joins the Watch - his past deeds are erased clean. He wisely decides to separate between the cronies, send Slynt away and keep Throne - whom he considers the more dangerous - close to him. Jon orders Slynt to take command of Greyguard and restore it, but Slynt refuses three times, with an extremely obnoxious and disrespectful manner. Jon executes Janos Slynt for that insubordination, and is somewhat disappointed that Alliser Thorne did not attempt to defend him. Later, Jon sends Thorne and eight other rangers to scout beyond the Wall. Throne obeys, but does not leave quietly: he ominously warns Jon that he will return to Castle Black, one way or another. Thorne has not returned yet and his fate is unknown, therefore he is not among those who attack Jon later.
One of the goals that Jon intends to achieve as the new Lord Commander of the Watch is to restore and garrison as many of the sixteen abandoned castles as possible, by both members of the Watch and wildlings. So far, most of those castles have been garrisoned, but are badly undermanned.
Stannis often consults with Jon, who serves as his unofficial advisor, about his next moves. Jon is aware that by advising Stannis, he is walking on very thin ice: the Watch must not get involved in the political conflicts south of the Wall; on the other hand, the Watch owes Stannis a great debt: without him, the wildlings would have eventually overcome the defenders of Castle Black. Jon dissuades Stannis from taking ill-advised actions that can be disastrous to him, like granting northern castles to southron lords and the plan to attack the Dreadfort (an idea brought up by the treacherous Arnolf Karstark, who secretly collaborates with the Boltons); instead, he advises Stannis to gain the support of the Northern mountain clans and to liberate Deepwood Motte from the ironborn. Stannis accepts both advice, and as a result, his position greatly improves: he gains the support of many northern houses, and his army grows more than three times.
Unbeknown to Jon, Cersei plots against him: she receives his letter that the Night's Watch takes no side, asking for arms and manpower, but has given Stannis food and shelter. She informs that to the council, claiming this is treason. Most of the council members suggest imposing sanctions on the Night's Watch. Qyburn has a more devious plan: to send a hundred men to the Wall, allegedly to take the black, but in truth to kill Jon. Cersei accepts Qyburn's advice and intends to send Osney Kettleblack with a hundred men to the Wall for that purpose, but as things turn to be, that scheme is never executed.
Though Jon initially has the support of almost the entire Night's Watch, he earns the distrust of most by proposing an alliance with the wildlings so that they will not fall into the hands of the White Walkers.
In the meantime, Melisandre tells Jon of visions she has had concerning "daggers in the dark" and a girl in grey riding on a dying horse for Castle Black, running away from a forced marriage, claiming it is his sister Arya. Jon initially believes the girl in question is indeed Arya, whom he hears is marrying Ramsay Bolton; the girl, however, turns to be neither Arya nor her impostor, but Alys Karstark, who informs Jon of the Karstarks' plan to betray Stannis to the Boltons. Unfortunately, Melisandre's mistake results in Jon ignoring her warning about "daggers in the dark", which turns to be correct.
Jon, loyal to his oaths, states that he has no sister and cannot help her, although he is anxious to. Melisandre, however, reveals to Jon that Mance Rayder is actually still alive, since she used her powers to disguise him as Rattleshirt (and Rattleshirt as Mance, which led him to being burned in Mance's place). She persuades Jon to send Mance to rescue Arya from Winterfell.
Jon also meets Tycho Nestoris, a representative of the Iron Bank of Braavos who has come to negotiate with Stannis, due to Cersei's consistent refusal to pay the crown's debts. Jon secures a loan from Nestoris for ships and food for the Night's Watch, and instructs him on where to find Stannis and warn him of the Karstarks' betrayal.
Jon arranges a mission to Hardhome to rescue the remaining wildlings there; unlike in the show, he does not join the mission himself, but instead sends Cotter Pyke there. Some time later, Jon receives desperate reports by messenger-raven that they are under siege by wights.
As Jon prepares to head out to Hardhome to rescue them, he receives a letter from Ramsay (often referred to as "the Pink Letter"), who taunts Jon by claiming that he has killed Stannis, destroyed his army and taken Mance prisoner, and demanding his bride, "Reek", Melisandre, Stannis's family, Mance's son and sister-in-law. Ramsay closes the letter by threatening to march on the Wall and destroy the Night's Watch if Jon does not agree, and "I will cut out your bastard heart and eat it."
Jon now realizes that he can't defend Castle Black from attack from the south (the Wall is located north of the castle) even as the Boltons are tearing the realm apart from the south. He reads the letter aloud in Castle Black's courtyard, and announces that he will ride south to confront and kill Ramsay himself - which might be construed as breaking the Watch's strict vow of political neutrality. Jon argues that the neutrality goes both ways, and Ramsay cannot just threaten to kill the head of the Night's Watch with impunity. Jon ultimately receives a very similar letter in the TV series, although it is after his resurrection - and unlike in the novels, Sansa is there to witness it (Sansa never married Ramsay in the novels, so this change was thrown in to increase the emotional impact of the scene - which could also explain delaying the letter until after Jon abandoned the Night's Watch).
But this is the last straw for many of the older Watch officers who were growing increasingly annoyed at Jon's decisions, especially about accepting the wildlings to the Watch. Moreover, they had the somewhat legitimate fear that if Jon fought Ramsay and lost, the Boltons would destroy the entire Night's Watch on the accusation that they were implicit in his actions. As Jon is preparing to leave, a fight breaks out with the giant Wun Wun. Jon tries to talk everyone down to prevent more loss of life and the mutineers choose the moment to stab Jon. The mutineers are led not by Alliser Thorne (who has been sent earlier by Jon to scout beyond the Wall and has not returned, his fate is unknown) but by Bowen Marsh, who openly weeps as he does so very reluctantly and says "for the Watch." Subsequent mutineers each walk up and stab Jon as well, but as he loses consciousness he doesn't recognize them (the chapter is narrated from Jon's POV). Olly is not present as the character was invented for the TV series and doesn't exist in the novels - he is loosely a condensation of half a dozen other characters Jon trusted. Jon collapses, smoke rising from his wounds, and the last word he utters is "Ghost..." as he hears his direwolf howling.
Jon's resurrection in the television series implies that he will return in The Winds of Winter.
There were numerous hints since the first novel that Eddard was lying about who Jon's mother was, and that he might even be the son of Eddard's sister Lyanna and Rhaegar, making Jon the secret heir to the Iron Throne. In the twenty years since the first novel was released through Season 6 of the TV series, this theory was popularly known in the books' fandom by the abbreviation "R+L=J" - for "Rhaegar + Lyanna = Jon." The theory was confirmed to be half true in the Season 6 finale when it was revealed that Lyanna was Jon's mother. A few days later HBO released an info graph revealing that Rhaegar is Jon's father, fully confirming the theory to be true.
Various hints included that Eddard gave inconsistent and indeed contradicting accounts of who Jon's mother was, indicating that he was lying about something, and also the conspicuous fact that Lyanna died shortly before Ned returned to the North with the infant Jon: hinting that Lyanna died in childbirth. There were also many hints (still unconfirmed) that Lyanna didn't actually love Robert, and she ran off with Rhaegar - particularly that everyone except for Robert himself describes Rhaegar as a chivalrous, intellectual, kind man who didn't seem the sort to randomly rape the daughter of a major noble House. Another major hint was that Rhaegar had the three greatest members of the Kingsguard (two in the TV version) including Arthur Dayne sit out the entire war, purely to guard Lyanna at the Tower of Joy.
Unbeknownst to Jon, his half-brother Aegon Targaryen, the son of Rhaegar and Elia Martell, is alive, as revealed in the fifth novel (Varys switched him with another baby, whom the Mountain killed during the Sack of King's Landing); he has recently arrived at Westeros with his guardian Jon Connington and nearly half of the Golden Company, to claim his birthright. Since the marriage of Rhaegar and Elia has never been annulled (it is an invention of the TV show), Aegon has a stronger claim than Daenerys for the Iron Throne, but it is unclear whether he is ahead of Jon too, since it has not been revealed yet in the books whether Rhaegar married Lyanna or not.
It should be noted that Aegon's book character has not been merged with Jon's show character, just because they have the same first name; Aegon is considered dead in the show.
It has long been believed in Westeros that only members of the Targaryen bloodline can easily bond with and ride dragons - which is one of the reasons they so readily accepted Daenerys (though that was also because she hatched them, becoming their adoptive mother). The revelation about Jon's real parentage means that he may potentially bond with one of Daenerys's three dragons in a future novel - after all, she has three dragons but only personally rides Drogon, the largest. To a lesser extent, this might also be true of the Baratheons - Robert was Rhaegar's second cousin in the books. With the deaths of Stannis and Shireen in the TV series, the only living member of the Baratheon bloodline is Robert's bastard son Gendry (who is, in fact, Jon's third cousin). House Martell also intermarried with the Targaryens but not recently, about a century ago: in the books Doran Martell's middle son Quentyn (cut from the TV show) traveled to Meereen and explicitly hoped his small amount of Targaryen blood would be enough to make the dragons trust him and try to mount one, but he got roasted alive instead.
Northman or Northerner is a term used on the continent of Westeros, which has different meanings depending on the region.
Most commonly, the term "Northerner" is used to refer to the people established in the region north of the Neck but south of the Wall, where the blood and traditions of the First Men still hold sway and belief in the Old Gods of the Forest remains the dominant religion. For thousands of years, the Northerners formed their own independent Kingdom of the North ruled by House Stark of Winterfell. The North submitted to Aegon the Conqueror during the Targaryen Conquest, three hundred years before the War of the Five Kings, and "the North" became one of the constituent regions of the unified Seven Kingdoms.
The names "Northmen" or "Northerners" are used somewhat interchangeably. For example, Ned Stark says to his wife Catelyn that he is a "Northman", and Joffrey Baratheon calls the people "Northerners" while talking to his mother.
The Northmen are proud descendants of the First Men, who successfully repulsed the Andals from the North when they invaded Westeros six thousand years ago in a mass migration. South of the Neck, the majority of people from the other kingdoms of Westeros are all descended from the Andals, intermixed with the conquered local First Men, but the defiantly independent First Men remained the dominant ethnic group north of the Neck. Except for the crannogmen, northmen are sometimes collectively referred to as "wolves", in reference to the sigil of House Stark.
The "Northmen", the crannogmen of the Neck, and the wildlings are all descended from the First Men, and all three groups still follow the same religion of the Old Gods, but their cultures diverged in different ways across the millennia.
In a cultural context, the term "Northmen" often excludes the crannogmen, the reclusive people that inhabit the swamps of the Neck itself. Like the other "Northmen" (such as the Starks) the crannogmen are also descended from the First Men, but their culture branched off from their Northmen cousins to adapt to the unique conditions of the swampy lands they inhabit.
While the Northmen and crannogmen are culturally distinct, they have both politically been united under the authority of Winterfell for hundreds of years, so southern courts such as at King's Landing will often lump the crannogmen in with the "Northmen" as an umbrella-term for "noble Houses that are ruled by Winterfell".
The Northmen tend to call people from the other parts of the Seven Kingdoms "Southerners", generally meaning those areas dominated by the Andals. In general usage, Dorne is often lumped together as one of the "southerner" kingdoms, because while the modern Dornishmen are predominantly descended from the Rhoynar, they still have some Andal blood and also converted to the Faith of the Seven, thus they have a culture of noble courts and knights, albeit with significant variations.
The wildlings who dwell in the wilderness beyond the Wall consider themselves the "true" Northerners, using the term "southerner" to refer to all peoples who live south of the Wall, regardless of their cultural background. As Osha the wildling pointed out to Theon Greyjoy, the region known as "The North" which is ruled by House Stark from Winterfell is actually south of the Wall, so the Free Folk even refer to "Northmen" Houses such as the Starks or Umbers as "southerners".
Like their ancestors, Northmen worship the Old Gods.
In the lands south of the Neck, where culture is predominantly Andal and the Faith of the Seven is the dominant religion, Northerners are looked down upon as a superstitious and unruly people.
The Northmen face the heaviest brunt of Westeros' winters, which can last for years at a time. While it rarely snows in the southernmost regions of Westeros such as Dorne or the southern parts of the Reach, in the North snow can fall even during the summer. Surviving winter is often a life-or-death struggle, so the Northmen are particularly zealous about cultivating and preserving their limited resources. Because cooperation is essential to survival, Northmen tend to have fewer wars over petty feuds and lovers' quarrels - though conversely they still have some internal competition over finite resources, such as the centuries-long rivalry between the Starks and Boltons.
The North is also the only region of the Seven Kingdoms with an outright "foreign" border, and constantly has to deal with wildling raiding parties that circumvent the Wall. Every few generations or centuries, the wildlings are united by a King-Beyond-the-Wall and launch major incursions to the south - and the Northmen are always the first line of defense. Because of these threats, Northmen do not hold formal tournaments as the rest of Westeros does; they see mock combat as wasteful and frivolous, when such resources should be preserved to combat the next wildling raid or prepare for the coming winter. That being said, many Northerners do take part in tournaments held in southern Westeros for the sake of wealth or glory. Likewise, Northmen tend to dismiss the courtly life and political intrigues of the south. Because of the grim, utilitarian nature of their existence, noble Houses from the North also tend to have much less complex Heraldry than is found in some of the southern kingdoms such as the Reach.
Northmen do not regularly become knights because of that institution's ties to the Faith of the Seven - which has few followers in the North - but also because the Northmen are so hard-pressed for basic survival against external threats that they do not need a separate subclass of professional warriors; every Northman has to have skill at arms in order to survive. That being said, knighthood in-and-of itself is still considered an honorable station by the Northerners- Jorah Mormont was knighted by King Robert Baratheon and considered it the proudest moment of his life, while Robb Stark considered Jorah's selling of poachers into slavery as a deep shame to his knighthood. Rodrik Cassel, the master-of-arms at Winterfell and tutor to Ned Stark, his siblings, and his children, was also knighted.
A number of the traditions established by the First Men still hold strong among the Northmen: the strict observance of guest right and laws of hospitality, as well as the belief that justice should be dispensed and enforced by the very lords that pass the sentence. While guest right is held sacred by all religions and peoples in Westeros, the Northmen are noted for taking it particularly seriously: given their very harsh winters, the act of giving a guest shelter and food during cold weather when they otherwise might starve or freeze in the wilderness is a gesture of trust that is never to be taken lightly.
Northern lords, like their forebears, not only pass judgment but also carry out the sentence, as Robb Stark does to Rickard Karstark.
Northern lords adamantly pride themselves on holding to the laws of the First Men, that the man who passes a sentence of execution must swing the sword himself. In southern Westeros, professional executioners will often carry out a sentence at the command their liege lords - in the case of the King, this duty is performed by the Royal Executioner, the King's Justice. While executions may be dispensed because of petty quarrels in the south, the life-or-death struggles for survival that the Northmen have to face means that they take the weight of command very seriously. The Northmen feel that if a lord cannot look a condemned man in the face as he personally executes him, he is unworthy of the weight of responsibility and consequences of his own orders.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Northmen - the descendants of the First Men established between the Neck and the Wall - are described as a proud and traditionally-minded people. Their lives are marked by the harshness of winter, which has made them a strong, if grim, people that follow strict codes of honor and look down on "southrons" as weak.
A few Northern noble Houses are rumored to continue to practice the banned tradition of First Night - which allows a lord to deflower any maiden in his domains on her wedding night. The practice was once widespread throughout the Seven Kingdoms but banned two centuries ago by King Jaehaerys I Targaryen. Even so, rumors persist that the Boltons, the northern mountain clans, and even some of the Umbers continue to enforce First Night in secret.
House Manderly of White Harbor is an exceptional case, in that they are the only major noble House from the North that is actually descended from the Andals and who worship the Faith of the Seven. Long after the Andal invasions, only about a thousand years ago, the Manderlys were exiled from the Reach but the Starks took them in as loyal allies. In time, the Starks rewarded them for their loyal service by granting them rule of the lands at the mouth of the White Knife. Under the rule of the Manderlys the city of White Harbor rose, the North's only major city and port. The Manderlys are still loosely considered "Northmen" at times as they are quite loyal to the Starks, and they have taken on some cultural habits of the North, but they still worship the New Gods. For the most part this actually hasn't caused much friction with the other Northmen - probably because the Andal invasions had ended thousands of years before, and the two religions had long since settled into co-existence. The other Northerners didn't begrudge the Manderlys for keeping to the faith of their fathers, and the Manderlys didn't attempt to proselytize the Faith of the Seven throughout the North, so there was never any outright hostility over it.
The Faith of the Seven is the main religion of the Seven Kingdoms. It is little-practiced beyond its borders. The Faith of the Seven is dominant in the south of Westeros. The only regions where it is not the majority religion are the North, where worship of the Old Gods of the Forest remains strong, and on the Iron Islands, where the local religion of the Drowned God is most widespread. There are many exceptions in these areas, however.
The faith, its influence and following were all greatly damaged due to the destruction of its center, the Great Sept of Baelor by wildfire, as a part of a plot organized by Cersei Lannister.
The Andals crossed the Narrow Sea to Westeros.
The Faith originated six thousand years before the War of the Five Kings in the continent of Essos, specifically in Andalos where, according to legend, the "God of Seven" manifested before the Andal people. Afterward the Andals sailed west and their invasion of Westeros began. Some of the Andal warriors carved the seven-pointed star, the symbol of their religion, into their flesh to demonstrate their devotion. Bearing weapons made of steel, the Andals conquered the First Men and slaughtered the Children of the Forest, viewing their magic as an abomination before the Seven. The Andals burned down most of the weirwood trees in the south, which are considered sacred in the worship of the Old Gods of the Forest. Soon all the kingdoms of the First Men, with the exception of the Kingdom of the North, fell to the invaders, who intermingled with some of the local dynasties, such as House Gardener, or replaced them altogether, as was the case of Mountain Kings of the Vale. As the Andals asserted their dominance over all regions south of the Neck, they asserted their religion over the First Men they conquered, replacing the worship of the Old Gods almost entirely throughout the southern kingdoms of Westeros. Thus the Andals' Faith of the Seven became the dominant religion on the entire continent, except for in the North and the Iron Islands.
Prior to the rule of House Targaryen, the Faith had the right to dispense justice, conduct inquests and trials and pass judgement over all echelons of society, including kings. This justice was enforced by the Faith Militant. However, this right was taken away from it by the Targaryen kings and, whilst the Faith remained an important part of Westerosi customs, they grew corrupt and their practices became little more than a façade. Nevertheless, the Faith's importance could not be understated and most if not all noble Houses had a septa present in their household to raise their daughters, such as Septa Mordane for House Stark (due to the influence of Catelyn Stark, who firmly believed in the Gods, despite the fact that she had married into a Northern family which worshiped the Old Gods).
As a result of the devastation of the War of the Five Kings, a growing disillusionment with the nobility grew among the smallfolk. Progressively, they begun to turn to the Faith for comfort and safety, specifically in the aftermath of the Red Wedding, during which House Frey broke the sacred guest right. A new religious cult emerged from this disillusioned mass, who called themselves Sparrows. The Sparrows believed that all, high and lowborn alike, were equal in the eyes of the Gods and that they shouldn't tolerate their excesses anymore.
After Tywin Lannister's death, the Sparrows arrived in King's Landing and begun spreading their message to the Kingslanders as well as tending to the poorest in the city. Even some highborn, such as Lancel Lannister, joined the new cult. Sometime after their arrival, the Sparrows forced the High Septon to perform a walk of penance through King's Landing after they found him in a brothel, mocking the Gods. When the High Septon appealed to the Small Council to have the Sparrows arrested and their leader, the High Sparrow, executed, the Queen Mother, Cersei Lannister, arrested the High Septon instead.
Cersei then had the High Sparrow elected as the new High Septon and told him that she planned to give the Faith back the power it had lost to the Targaryens. This includes rearming the Faith Militant and allowing the Faith to wield judiciary power. With the restoration of these rights, the High Sparrow arms his Sparrows as the new Faith Militant and sends them to destroy alehouses, brothels, idols of other religions and to arrest anyone believed to have broken the holy laws. Thanks to Cersei, they learn of Loras Tyrell's homosexuality and arrest him.
A holy inquest is held into Loras's 'sins' and is attended by King Tommen Baratheon, Queen Margaery Tyrell; Loras's sister; Lady Olenna Tyrell and Cersei Lannister. During the inquest, Loras is ordered to stand trial due to Olyvar's testimony and Margaery is also arrested for perjuring herself to save her brother. A few days later, Cersei is also arrested on charges of incest, adultery and the murder of King Robert Baratheon, charges which are due to the testimony of Lancel Lannister, her former lover.
Though Cersei is defiant at first, she eventually confesses her adultery with Lancel in order to be reunited with her son King Tommen. The High Sparrow grants her request but says that there will still be a trial to ascertain the truth behind the other charges that she denies: incest and regicide. Cersei is then forced to walk naked through the streets of Kings Landing from the Great Sept of Baelor to the Red Keep amidst the leering and jeering crowds who have gathered to see her shame and take the chance to insult their hated Queen Mother.
The High Sparrow still holds Loras and Margaery Tyrell captive. Margaery's grandmother, Olenna Tyrell, and her father, Mace Tyrell, are determined to get her out, along with her husband King Tommen. Tommen visits the High Sparrow several times, first in hostility, but soon begins talking and listening to the High Sparrow. Under severe psychological torture, Margaery confesses her sins. When King Tommen visits Margaery, he is surprised to find her talking positively about the High Sparrow. He finds himself agreeing with her about the High Sparrow.
Later, Mace Tyrell leads a faction of the Tyrell army through the streets of King's Landing to a waiting Jaime Lannister. Together, they proceed to the Great Sept, outside which the High Sparrow, Septa Unella, the Faith Militant and a large crowd of city folk are preparing for Margaery's Walk of Atonement. The army arrives, along with Olenna Tyrell in a litter, as the High Sparrow is speaking, and Jaime demands he release Margaery and Loras, before they can "be on their way."
The High Sparrow refuses and fends off Jaime's threats to kill all the Sparrows by saying each Sparrow yearns to die in the service of the Gods. After a tense few moments he proclaims it will not be necessary, as there will be no Walk of Atonement. Margaery has already atoned for her sins by bringing another into the faith. To Jaime's astonishment the doors of the Sept open and King Tommen emerges, escorted by his own guards, and walks down the steps to join the High Sparrow and Margaery in a demonstration of unity between the crown and the faith. He explains that there is a new alliance between the crown and the faith. The crowd burst into cheers after Tommen's speech, demonstrating that the High Sparrow now has the support of both the crown and the smallfolk. Jaime is later sent away from King's Landing, to Riverrun, in order to deal with Brynden "the Blackfish" Tully, who had retaken it in the name of House Tully, and Robb Stark's Kingdom of the North against House Frey. This is presumably part of the High Sparrow's plan to weaken Cersei by removing Jaime from the capital.
King Tommen announces that the trials of his mother and of Loras Tyrell will be held on the first day of the Festival of the Mother. He further decrees that trial by combat is outlawed and that people tried by the faith will face seven septons as it was in the early days.
On the day of the trials, many people are assembled in the Great Sept, including Kevan Lannister, the High Sparrow, Mace Tyrell, Queen Margaery, and Ser Loras. The High Sparrow begins Loras' trial, but he confesses to his crimes and opts to become a servant of the Faith, forsaking his name, lordship, and claim to Highgarden. The High Sparrow accepts and Loras is made a brother of the Faith Militant. Cersei and Tommen are not present and Margaery becomes concerned, telling the High Sparrow then the audience that they need to leave. The Faith Militant bar anyone from the exits and all assembled perish when a cache of wildfire beneath the building is detonated. The Great Sept of Baelor is completely destroyed, along with the entire Faith Militant, completely shattering the faith's power.
The Faith holds that there is one god who has seven faces or aspects: the Father, the Mother, the Maiden, the Crone, the Warrior, the Smith, and the Stranger. Each aspect represents one part of life or existence.
Catelyn Stark's homemade prayer wheel, depicting effigies of the Seven.
The Stranger is depicted as neither male nor female, thus the number of male and female aspects within the godhead is equal: three males (Father, Warrior, Smith), three females (Maiden, Mother, Crone), and one who is neither. Unlike the other aspects which are represented as human figures in artwork, because the Stranger represents the unknown it is often portrayed in a wide variety of forms, often frightening. Sometimes it is represented as a skeletal figure, or a non-human creature possessing various animalistic features.
Due to its seven "aspects", the deity is often referred to as the "Seven-faced God" or the "God of Seven", but most frequently as simply "the Seven". The Seven are also referred to as "the New Gods" or "New God", in contrast with the "Old Gods" of the Forest worshiped by the First Men before the invasion of the Andals.
In practice, many devotees will refer to the aspects as "Gods" plural, though priests of the Faith will attempt to stress the theological nuance to their followers that there is indeed only one God, the "Seven-in-One" deity. This has not stopped the commonly heard exclamation "Gods be good!" from being used pervasively throughout the Seven Kingdoms.
The Seven Pointed Star is a symbol of the unity of the Seven-in-One God.
Due to the "Seven-in-One" nature of the deity, the number seven is sacred in the religion, with symbolism involving the number seven featuring heavily in its belief system. Newborn babies are anointed with seven oils and named in the light of the Seven the day they are born. In death, the Faith believes that there are Seven Heavens and Seven Hells. The exclaimed curse "Seven Hells!" is commonly heard in Westeros.
The Seven-Pointed Star is the most prominent symbol of the Faith, representing how each of the seven aspects is one facet of a unified whole. This is used as an allegory to explain the complex theological concept of a single God composed of Seven persons: just as the star has seven points, but all points are part of the same star, so too is there only one deity, which appears to men in seven different ways.
The Faith also holds to the belief that, just as there are seven aspects of their deity, it also preaches the existence of seven heavens and, likewise, seven hells."
Unlike the Old Gods of the Forest, whose worshipers in the North are looked down upon by members of the Faith of the Seven as savages who worship multiple gods, the Faith is based on a number of holy texts and complex social rules. The central holy text of the religion is The Seven-Pointed Star.
The Great Sept of Baelor in King's Landing
Temples of the Faith are seven-sided buildings known as "Septs", with each wall dedicated to one of the seven aspects. Followers of the Faith gather in septs for group prayer, which frequently involves singing hymns of praise to the Seven. One such hymn dedicated to the Mother is "Gentle Mother, Font of Mercy." There are also monasteries, known as "septries", where smaller numbers of worshipers gather who have taken a monastic oath. Septries often have vows of silence or other requirements, and are places of quiet contemplation.
Knights are supposed to uphold the Faith of the Seven.
Mounted warriors known as knights dedicate themselves to a code of behavior known as chivalry, heavily influenced by the Faith of the Seven and its principles. The will of the Seven is said to favor the victor in a trial by combat.
The Faith condemns homosexuality as a sin.
Along with the Old Gods, the Faith shares several basic social rules against incest, kinslaying, and bastardy. The Faith of the Seven, along with all major religions, also upholds the laws of hospitality, which hold sacred the good behavior of a guest and host towards each other.
The Faith of the Seven considers homosexuality to be a sin, albeit one of lesser severity than incest or kinslaying. Therefore, homosexuals in the Seven Kingdoms such as Ser Loras Tyrell and Renly Baratheon must keep their true sexual and romantic behavior secret, or else face significant social consequences.
Only members of House Targaryen are permitted to practice incest in order to "keep the bloodline pure", after the Faith was forced to turn a blind eye towards the incest after the Faith Militant uprising.
Incest is considered an abomination by the Faith.
There are no different denominations within the Faith of the Seven, as all adherents are part of one universal organization. However, different regions of the Seven Kingdoms may interpret and apply its rules more or less strictly than others, particularly Dorne. When the Rhoynar migrated to Dorne a thousand years ago, they brought with them their own social customs from their river-based city-states on the continent of Essos. The Rhoynar converted to the Faith of the Seven, but in many ways they picked and chose which parts of the religion they liked and simply ignored the parts they didn't want to follow. Thus the present-day Dornishmen who descend from them follow the rules of the Faith somewhat loosely. In particular, the Rhoynar were quite tolerant of sexual behavior including homosexuality, and thus homosexuality or bisexuality carries little if any social taint in present-day Dorne, even though they are still nominally followers of the Faith of the Seven. Thus while a knight from the Reach such as Ser Loras Tyrell must hide his homosexuality, several major lords and ladies in Dorne are openly bisexual or homosexual - such as Oberyn Martell and Ellaria Sand. The Rhoynar also had much less disdain for bastards than the peoples already established in Westeros when they arrived. While bastards in present-day Dorne do have to use the bastard surname "Sand" and are less likely to inherit, it is actually not unusual to see bastards living at the court of their noble parents there.
Unlike the faith of the Old Gods of the Forest, which lacks elaborate ceremonies, weddings under the auspices of the Faith of the Seven are elaborate and highly ritualized. These ceremonies typically take place inside of a sept and are presided over by a septon. At the beginning of the ceremony, the bride is escorted to the altar by her father where the groom and the septon await. The groom is then told, "You may now cloak the bride and bring her under your protection" and drapes a cloak bearing his house's colors around the bride's shoulders.
The bride and groom then join hands, which are tied together with a ribbon by the septon, who says, "In the sight of the Seven, I hereby seal these two souls, binding them as one, for eternity." He then instructs them to, "Look upon one another and say the words." At this point, the bride and groom turn to face each other are recite the following vow in unison: "Father, Smith, Warrior, Mother, Maiden, Crone, Stranger, I am his/hers and she/he is mine from this day until the end of my days."
Deviations from this ritual do occur sometimes. Owing in large part to its spur-of-the-moment, secret nature and the characters' remote location at the time, the wedding of Robb Stark and Talisa Maegyr takes place outside instead of inside a sept. It also appears that Robb did not cloak Talisa - possibly because he did not have a cloak available. Talisa is also not given away by her father, who was not present or anyone else for that matter. By contrast, Sansa Stark is given away at her wedding but not by her father, who had been executed beforehand. Instead, King Joffrey Baratheon, as "the Father of the Realm," takes it upon himself to give Sansa away.
The High Septon
Unlike the worship of the Old Gods, the Faith of the Seven has an organized clergy with a complex internal hierarchy. Both men and women can be priests of the Seven. Male priests are known as septons and female priests as septas.
The head of the Faith is known as the High Septon, who resides at the headquarters of the Faith of the Seven, the Great Sept of Baelor, which is located in the capital city King's Landing. The ruling council of the Faith is known as the Most Devout, who also reside in the Great Sept. The Most Devout rank just below the High Septon, but are responsible for electing a new High Septon when the current one dies.
The Silent Sisters tend to the dead after a battle.
There are several monastic or devotional orders that believers in the Faith of the Seven may belong to. One of the most prominent of these is the Silent Sisters, a separate all-female monastic order devoted to the Stranger, the aspect that represents death. The Silent Sisters are responsible for dressing and preparing dead bodies for funeral rites, and have taken vows of silence and chastity. Silent Sisters are separate from the regular clergy, and are not considered to be septas.
Author George R.R. Martin has stated that the Faith of the Seven in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels is loosely analogous, at least in social function, to the medieval Catholic Church. Martin himself was raised Roman Catholic but by the time of the TV series, describes himself as a "lapsed Catholic". He borrowed the idea of the three-in-one Holy Trinity (Father-Son-Holy Ghost) and modified it into a "Holy Septinity" of sorts when he made the seven-in-one god of the Faith of the Seven.
When Aegon the Conqueror invaded and subdued Westeros three centuries ago, he gained the support of the Faith, who crowned him King and convinced the rulers of the city of Oldtown to open their gates to him. The Faith's support was critical to Aegon taking control of the continent. However, when he died and his son Aenys (born of incest, which is proscribed by the Faith) took the throne, they led a religious uprising against him. This uprising was eventually crushed by the Targaryen dynasty with great loss of life, when the weakling Aenys died and was succeeded by his ruthless brother Maegor the Cruel. Peace was reached when Maegor died and was succeeded by Aenys' son Jaehaerys, who brokered a peace agreement: the Faith didn't have to actively support the incestuous marriage practices of the Targaryens, but it did have to at least acknowledge the marriages as valid, and the Faith's leadership accepted the offer. The Faith's military forces, the Faith Militant, disbanded and the Faith have remained loyal supporters of the crown ever since.
Many septons and septas are based at a sept or septry, but "begging brothers", septons without a sept, wander the Seven Kingdoms and minister to smaller towns and villages which lack septs of their own. This is analogous to medieval friars.
Similar to the real-life College of Cardinals in Catholicism, the Faith is ruled over by a council known as the Most Devout, which elects the High Septon. New High Septons are usually selected from among the members of the Most Devout, but this is not a requirement. While septons and septas serve on the council of the Most Devout, the High Septon is usually male. It hasn't been mentioned if there is an actual rule against electing a "High Septa" and there has never been one, or if there were High Septas in the past, and one simply hasn't been elected during the timeframe of the novels.
Lord Eddard Stark, also known as Ned Stark, was the head of House Stark, the Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North, and later Hand of the King to King Robert I Baratheon. He was the older brother of Benjen, Lyanna and the younger brother of Brandon Stark. He is the father of Robb, Sansa, Arya, Bran, and Rickon by his wife, Catelyn Tully, and uncle of Jon Snow, who he raised as his bastard son. He was a dedicated husband and father, a loyal friend, and an honorable lord.
Eddard's execution and revealing the illegitimacy of Cersei Lannister's children sparked the War of the Five Kings between Joffrey Baratheon, Robb Stark, Renly Baratheon, Stannis Baratheon, and Balon Greyjoy, being posthumously responsible for the involvement of four of the kings in this war.
Following his death, his legacy would shape the future of Westeros for years. His eldest son Robb was acclaimed by the Northern lords as the first King in the North since the days of the Conquest. Although Robb later fell at the Red Wedding, the North's desire for independence, which had been awoken by Eddard's execution, was carried on by his alledged bastard Jon Snow's own acclamation as king and, following his exile to the Night's Watch for assassinating Daenerys Targaryen, by his eldest daughter Sansa, who refused to allow the North to remain a part of the Seven Kingdoms and was crowned as the first Queen in the North. Following the death of all claimants to the Iron Throne in the War of the Five Kings and the second Targaryen conquest, the Great Council of 305 AC elected Eddard's last living son, Bran, as the new King of the Andals and the First Men.
Eddard Stark was the head of House Stark and Warden of the North, and House Stark is one of the Great Houses of the realm. House Stark rules the region from their seat of Winterfell, and Eddard also held the title Lord of Winterfell.
Ned and Benjen as children, training at Winterfell.
Eddard was the second son of Lord Rickard Stark. Lord Rickard served King Aerys II Targaryen as Warden of the North. Eddard's older brother Brandon was Rickard's heir. Eddard also has a younger sister Lyanna and a younger brother Benjen. Eddard was a stoic, dutiful, and honorable man and was considered to embody the values of the North.
Eddard was a trusted, close friend and counselor of King Robert Baratheon. Both boys were fostered as children by Jon Arryn, the Defender of the Vale, they grew to love each other as brothers and loved Jon Arryn as a father figure. He supported Robert's play for the throne by acting as a general in several major battles. Eddard's sister, Lyanna, who was betrothed to Robert, was purportedly kidnapped by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, igniting a war. Brandon protested the kidnapping, but his attempt to bring Rhaegar to justice failed. Lord Rickard was summoned to court in King's Landing by Aerys, and both Brandon and Rickard were brutally executed by the Mad King. Their deaths left Eddard to inherit Rickard's responsibilities, serving King Robert instead.[citation needed]
Ned's wedding to Catelyn Tully.
Brandon had been betrothed to Catelyn, and Eddard also inherited his brother's bride. Lyanna died in Eddard's arms during the conflict. Despite his happy family life, Eddard still felt the losses of his family quite keenly, often visiting his sister's tomb to light a candle for her as his daughter, Sansa, remembered. Despite barely knowing each other, Eddard and Catelyn formed a strong and loving marriage, and had five children, Robb, Sansa, Arya, Bran and Rickon.
Eddard also had a supposed illegitimate son, Jon Snow, apparently fathered with a common serving girl Wylla, and raised Jon as his son alongside his legitimate children in Winterfell. In reality, Jon is Eddard's nephew since he is the son of Eddard's sister Lyanna with Rhaegar Targaryen. Eddard kept this secret from everyone, including Catelyn, to protect Jon - especially from Robert Baratheon. This would become a source of occasional friction between Eddard and Catelyn, who remained unaware of Jon's true origins. Eddard's younger brother Benjen joined the Night's Watch, an institution of which Eddard was a keen supporter. He also appeared to have troubles keeping his bannermen in line as Stannis Baratheon remembered his brother Robert saying the Northmen were difficult to control, even with Eddard on his side.
Eddard wielded a Valyrian steel greatsword named Ice (an heirloom of House Stark) which he used on ceremonial occasions.
Eddard passes sentence on Will.
Eddard Stark executes a deserter from the Night's Watch named Will. Will tries to warn Eddard about the return of the White Walkers, but Eddard dismisses him as a madman. Eddard's sons Robb, Bran, and Jon accompany him to the execution. Eddard makes a point of telling Bran that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword and take responsibility for his own decisions.
On the way back to Winterfell, the party finds a dead stag and a dead female direwolf. The direwolf is found with her litter of six living pups. Eddard's first instinct is to kill them, but Jon tells his father that since the direwolf is the sigil of House Stark, the pups may be an omen. Eddard agrees to let his children look after them on the condition that they clean, raise, and feed them with no help from the servants.
Ned in the catacombs visiting Lyanna's crypt with Robert.
A raven bearing news of the death of Jon Arryn, Eddard's childhood mentor and foster father, flies to Winterfell. The missive also states that King Robert and much of the royal court is on their way to the castle. Eddard realizes that Robert means to name him as Hand of the King to replace Jon. He ponders refusal. However, when Robert arrives, he makes it clear that he badly needs Eddard's help in King's Landing. He also sweetens the deal by offering to betroth his son and heir Joffrey to Eddard's daughter Sansa. Eddard remains uncertain until a secret letter from Lysa Arryn, Catelyn's sister, implicates the Lannisters in the death of Jon Arryn. Eddard decides to accept to investigate both Jon Arryn's death and a potential plot against the king. He decides to bring both of his daughters to introduce them at court.
Eddard and his nephew/adopted son Jon Snow.
Bran is found comatose at the base of a disused tower following an apparent climbing accident. Eddard reluctantly decides to leave as planned, to his wife's distress. Eddard, Arya, Sansa, and the royal party head south to King's Landing. At their parting, Eddard tells Jon he is a Stark and that while he does not have Eddard's name, he has his blood. He also promises to tell him about his mother the next time they meet.
On the Kingsroad south to the capital, King Robert calls a halt to discuss troubling news from Essos. Robert's spies have learned of Daenerys Targaryen's marriage to Khal Drogo, whose khalasar is reported to number over one hundred thousand warriors. Eddard points out that the Dothraki cannot cross the Narrow Sea, as they have no ships, but Robert is concerned that the Seven Kingdoms will soon face another war. Robert also asks about Wylla, the mother of Jon Snow, but Eddard quickly deflects the line of questioning.
Eddard and Arya at the Crossroads Inn.
Joffrey is bitten by Arya's direwolf Nymeria after Joffrey attacks Arya. To save Nymeria's life, Arya forces her direwolf to flee and hides in the woods herself. Arya is found and Eddard is brought before the king and instructed to punish Arya. Joffrey lies about the cause of the incident and Sansa supports him, enraging Arya. Queen Cersei insists that a direwolf must be punished and Robert orders that Sansa's direwolf, Lady, must be killed in Nymeria's place. Eddard attends to the matter himself, to Sansa's anger.
Ned hires Syrio Forel to train Arya.
On his arrival in King's Landing, Eddard is immediately summoned to a Small Council meeting and finds the capital immersed in political intrigue. Members of the king's Small Council are at the heart of these machinations: Petyr Baelish, the Master of Coin, known as Littlefinger; Varys, the Master of Whisperers; Pycelle, the Grand Maester; and Renly Baratheon, the Master of Laws and Robert's younger brother. Eddard learns that the crown is six million Gold Dragons in debt, with half of it owed to Lord Tywin Lannister. Regardless, Robert has ordered a lavish tournament to celebrate Eddard's appointment.
While acclimating to the political maneuvering, Eddard also tries to repair the rift between Sansa and Arya with mixed results. Sansa rejects his gifts, but Arya is delighted when he hires a swordmaster, Syrio Forel, to train her.
Littlefinger tells Eddard that Catelyn has followed him to the city. Eddard is furious when Littlefinger brings him to a brothel, believing he is the victim of a bad joke. Catelyn intervenes as Eddard attacks Littlefinger. She tells Eddard that she has traveled south to report an assassination attempt against Bran. The assassin was killed but was carrying a Valyrian steel knife. Littlefinger identifies the blade as one that he lost in a bet with Tyrion Lannister, and they conclude that the Lannisters were also behind Bran's original injuries. Eddard agrees to try to expose the truth, and Catelyn urges him to trust Littlefinger, her childhood friend. Eddard reluctantly agrees, though he finds Littlefinger obnoxious and dishonorable.
Eddard presides over the Small Council.
Eddard's investigation reveals that Jon Arryn took an interest in Robert's numerous bastard children, including his son Gendry. He learns that Jon borrowed The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms from Pycelle. Eddard reads the book but cannot determine why Jon wanted it. Eddard discovers that soon after Jon's death his squire, Hugh, was knighted. Eddard sends the captain of his guards, Jory Cassel, to investigate, but Hugh refuses to talk to Jory.
Hugh is killed by Ser Gregor Clegane - a noted servant of Lord Tywin Lannister - in an apparent tourney mishap before Eddard can talk to him. As the tourney continues, Eddard discusses the death with Lord Commander Barristan Selmy of the Kingsguard, one of the most decorated and honorable knights in Westeros. They cannot ascertain if Hugh was killed deliberately. Eddard convinces King Robert not to fight in the tourney, bluntly calling him too fat. Robert reluctantly agrees.
Yoren of the Night's Watch arrives in the city and tells Eddard that he witnessed Catelyn arresting Tyrion Lannister. This allows Eddard to claim that he ordered the arrest. Varys visits Eddard and warns him that there is a conspiracy, saying that Jon was poisoned and that King Robert may also be killed if Eddard cannot stop it.
A rift opens between Eddard and Robert when Eddard refuses to sanction the assassination of Daenerys Targaryen upon hearing she is pregnant with Khal Drogo's child. Eddard resigns as Hand and prepares to return to Winterfell. Littlefinger gives Eddard another lead, keeping him in the city. Eddard finds another of Robert's bastards, a baby girl named Barra in one of Littlefinger's brothels. As Eddard leaves the brothel, he is confronted by Ser Jaime Lannister over Tyrion's capture. Jaime kills Jory and Eddard's other bodyguards. He proceeds to engage Eddard in single combat. A Lannister guardsman interferes and stabs Eddard in the leg, angering Jaime. He tells Eddard that he wants his brother back and leaves.
An injured Eddard wakes up in the Red Keep to be confronted by Cersei and Robert about the fight with Jaime and the abduction of Tyrion by Catelyn. Cersei is enraged that Eddard will not be punished. Robert tells Eddard that he is like a brother, and he refuses to accept his resignation as Hand. Robert commands Eddard to take back the badge and to make peace with the Lannisters, as he will not risk another civil war. Eddard reluctantly agrees. Robert goes on a hunting expedition, and Eddard receives word that Ser Gregor Clegane is leading a series of pillaging raids on the Riverlands, possibly at Lord Tywin Lannister's command. Despite his order to make peace with the Lannisters, Eddard commands Lord Beric Dondarrion to carry out an order of execution on Gregor, whom he strips of all rank and title. Eddard also orders that Tywin present himself in the capital to explain his vassal's actions under penalty of being branded a traitor.
Ned discovers the parentage of Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen.
Despite being restored to the king's favor, Eddard worries that the situation may yet come to war. He orders Sansa and Arya to return to Winterfell. A chance comment by Sansa that golden-haired Joffrey is a lion, not a stag, and is "nothing like" his old drunk of a father, prompts Eddard to realize the truth of Joffrey's parentage. He consults The Lineage book and sees that in every match between a Baratheon and a member of another house, the Baratheon black hair always dominates. Shocked, Eddard realizes that this means that Joffrey and the other royal children are not Robert's and as a result, they have no claim to the Iron Throne.
Ned confronts Cersei.
Eddard confronts Cersei and warns her that he knows that her three children are not Robert's children, but her children conceived with her twin brother Jaime. Ned warns Cersei to flee with her children into exile before Robert returns from his hunt, when he will tell Robert the truth. Robert is mortally wounded while on the hunt. Wishing him a peaceful death, Eddard withholds his discovery. Robert has Eddard write his will, naming Eddard Protector of the Realm to rule until Joffrey comes of age. Eddard transcribes the command, but does not name Joffrey specifically and instead refers to Robert's successor as Robert's rightful heir.
Eddard writes to Robert's brother and true heir, Stannis, urging him to take the crown. He dispatches his guardsman Tomard to deliver the letter. Eddard tells Littlefinger the truth of the matter, but rejects Littlefinger's suggestion that they take advantage of the situation to increase their own power. Reluctantly, Littlefinger agrees to recruit the City Watch to Eddard's cause. Renly also offers Eddard the use of soldiers in securing Cersei and her children, but Eddard refuses to dishonor Robert's last few hours by spilling blood and frightening children. Renly flees the castle fearing that the Lannisters will show no such respect.
Littlefinger turns on Eddard Stark.
Robert dies and Joffrey takes the throne. Cersei tears up the letter proclaiming Eddard as Protector of the Realm. Eddard tells Joffrey that he has no right to the Iron Throne and commands the City Watch to take him and his mother into custody. Instead, the City Watch turns on Eddard's men and kills them. Littlefinger holds a knife to Eddard's throat, telling him that he shouldn't have trusted him.
Eddard in the black cells of the Red Keep.
Eddard is incarcerated in the black cells under the Red Keep. He is visited by Varys who is disguised as a gaoler. Eddard asks about his daughters and Varys replies Arya has escaped the castle but Sansa is still engaged to Joffrey. Varys is bemused by Eddard telling Cersei that he knew about the parentage of her children and adds that his mercy is what killed Robert. He also informs Ned that Catelyn no longer has Tyrion in custody. Eddard asks if he will be killed and Varys replies, "not today." Varys returns to urge Eddard to confess to treason in exchange for exile in the Night's Watch. Eddard refuses until Varys elucidates that the Lannisters still have Sansa as a hostage. Varys adds that the Lannisters need him alive so they can bargain with his son Robb, who is leading an army to confront them in the Riverlands.
Eddard is executed by Ser Ilyn Payne.
Eddard is taken to the front steps of the Great Sept of Baelor. He spots Arya crouching beside the statue of Baelor the Blessed and signals Yoren, who is also present amidst the gathered crowd. Having relented to Varys' request in order to save Sansa, Eddard makes the false confession that he intended to seize the throne for himself and recognizes Joffrey as the rightful king. Joffrey, however, ignores his mother's counsel that Eddard be exiled and orders his immediate execution. Before Ser Ilyn Payne swings the Lord of Winterfell's own sword Ice, Eddard notices that Yoren has taken Arya. Sansa, distraught, is restrained as Payne decapitates Eddard before the shocked Cersei and council can intervene while the baying crowd cheers. Before he dies, Eddard mutters a few last unheard words. Yoren is able to smuggle a devastated Arya out of the city.
Eddard's head on a spike.
Eddard's head is placed on a spike above the Traitor's Walk in the Red Keep. Joffrey torments Sansa by forcing her to look upon it as well as the other slain members of her household. She overcomes her revulsion and is able to maintain her composure, preventing his satisfaction at seeing her upset. Eddard's death launches the Seven Kingdoms into the devastating War of the Five Kings, with the North and the Riverlands seceding from the authority of the Iron Throne and Robb Stark proclaimed as the King in the North. Tywin calls his execution "madness and stupidity" as the Lannisters - who are also fighting Robert's brothers for the throne - could have used Eddard to end the war with the Starks.
Sansa is held hostage by the Lannisters and forced to call her father a traitor.
The return of Ned's remains for a proper burial is one of the demands that his son Robb Stark, the new King in the North, tells Alton Lannister to deliver to Queen Cersei Lannister in King's Landing.
Cersei scoffs at Robb's declaration of independence when his demands are read to the Small Council, but Tyrion insists that they should at least return the bones of Robb's father.
The Silent Sisters deliver a box containing Ned Stark's bones.
When Catelyn Stark approaches the camp of Renly Baratheon, his wife Margaery Tyrell says she is sorry for her loss. When Catelyn Stark and Petyr Baelish both approach the army camp of Renly Baratheon in the Stormlands for negotiations, Baelish delivers Ned's bones to Catelyn, in a box escorted by a pair of Silent Sisters. The delivery is a gesture of goodwill by Tyrion, in the hope that this would smooth the way to achieving the liberation of his brother Jaime from Stark captivity. Catelyn mourns over Ned's remains.
Ser Rodrik Cassel berates Theon Greyjoy for his betrayal when Theon takes Winterfell, reminding him that Ned raised him among his family. Theon responds, "Among them, but not one of them." Ser Rodrik laments what if Ned were alive to see this but Theon tells Rodrik that Ned is dead. As Bran and Rickon plead for Rodrik's life and the ironborn urge Theon to execute Rodrik, Rodrik assures Bran and Rickon that he’s off to see their father.
Beyond the Wall, Jon reveals to the wildling Ygritte who he is, that Ned Stark is his father, and his family has the blood of the First Men in their veins like Ygritte and the other wildlings do as the Starks and wildlings are both descendants of the First Men.
Mance Rayder recognizes Jon as "Ned Stark's bastard." In their conversation, Jon remembers his father taught him that "big men fall just as quick as little ones."
Bran has a dream at one point where he hears his father's voice, repeating his previous words of encouragement that Bran will become a better archer with practice, and scolding Jon and Robb for laughing at Bran missing the bullseye.
When Lady Olenna Tyrell urges Sansa to tell her the truth about Joffrey Baratheon, Sansa answers her father always told the truth but he was proclaimed a traitor and Joffrey cut his head off. Sansa reveals how Joffrey forced her to look at her father's decapitated head. When Olenna tells her to go on, Sansa panics and tries to take back what she said but confesses Joffrey is a monster after Olenna assures her they will keep her confidence.
Jojen Reed tells Bran that when he told his father that he saw Ned’s execution in his visions, it was the first time he saw his father cry. Bran realizes Jojen's father is Howland Reed and tells Jojen that Howland saved Ned's life in the Rebellion.
In a conversation with Lady Olenna, Varys states that he admired Lord Eddard, and Lady Olenna retorts that Lord Stark had many admirers, none of which came to his rescue, not knowing that Varys had tried and failed to have Ned spared. Varys replies that he regrets he was unable to save Ned from execution, and that he wishes to help Sansa as a means of restitution for this failure.
Theon Greyjoy, after reflecting on his betrayal of the Starks and his abandonment by his father, comes to the conclusion that Ned Stark was the closest thing to a father he ever had, realizing that his "real father died in King's Landing", which he confesses to Ramsay Snow. The realization that he had betrayed Ned's memory and the only people who ever truly treated him like family moves Theon to tears.
During her time with the Brotherhood Without Banners, Arya learns from Thoros of Myr that they were indirectly created by her father to bring justice to Gregor Clegane. She also learns that their leader, Beric Dondarrion, greatly admired Ned, and regrets the necessity of holding Arya for ransom.
When Jaime Lannister reveals to Brienne of Tarth his true motives behind killing the Mad King, Brienne asks him why he didn't tell Ned Stark of his motives. He angrily rants that the "honorable" Ned Stark would never have believed him. Jaime believes that Ned judged him guilty the moment he laid eyes on him.
Shortly before they are massacred at the wedding of Edmure Tully and Roslin Frey, Robb and his wife Talisa consider naming their unborn child after Ned if it is a boy. Catelyn also reveals to Roose Bolton that at their wedding Ned forbade the traditional bedding, fearing it would be bad luck if he punched a man on their wedding night.
When Bran is on the other side of the Wall, he wargs into a Heart tree and sees a vision of his father sitting in the Godswood of Winterfell with his sword Ice, and in the black cells of the Red Keep.
When Tyrion Lannister is given the opportunity to take the black if he admits to assassinating Joffrey in his trial and then pleads for mercy, he rightly points out that Ned Stark was promised the same and was executed nonetheless.
When Sansa reveals her identity to the lords of the Vale, Lord Yohn Royce mentions that Ned was a good friend of his, and that they used to hunt together.
When Stannis Baratheon and his forces arrive at Castle Black and defeat the remainder of Mance's army, Jon explains he knows Stannis is the king and his father died for Stannis. Stannis tells Jon his father was an honorable man. Jon agrees and Stannis asks Jon what Ned would have done with Mance. Jon replies his father would have taken Mance prisoner and listened to what Mance had to say. Stannis agrees.
When Jon turns down Stannis's offer of legitimacy, Stannis is disappointed and remarks, "You are as stubborn as your father. And as honorable." Jon takes this as praise of his father but Stannis tells him, "I didn't mean it as praise. Honor got your father killed."
As she prepares to maim Sansa, Myranda quips that Ramsay Bolton needs her alive because her father Ned was the Warden of the North so Ramsay Bolton needs Sansa until she gives him an heir. Myranda then threatens to maim Sansa, as she does not need to be completely "intact" to bear Ramsay children with Stark blood. However, Theon begins to atone for the role he played in the downfall of House Stark by killing Myranda before she can harm Sansa and helps Sansa escape the clutches of the deranged Ramsay.
Ned appears in one of Bran's visions while under the tutelage of the Three-Eyed Raven. In the vision, Ned appears in his youth, training with Benjen Stark. Ned teases Benjen about his swordsmanship and hugs him. Benjen tries to invite Wylis, a stable boy who later became Hodor, but Wylis' mother insists that her son will not be fighting with lords. Ned's younger sister Lyanna Stark also appears in the vision.
A young Lord Ned Stark, Howland Reed and a band of Northmen about to face two of the Mad King's Kingsguard, Ser Arthur Dayne and Ser Gerold Hightower.
Later, Ned appears in another flashback, in which he leads a small force against Lord Commander Gerold Hightower and Ser Arthur Dayne in the Red Mountains. In this battle, Ned Stark is shown to have been a highly skilled swordsman who bested Ser Gerold and held his own against Ser Arthur until Ser Arthur disarms him. Before Ser Arthur can kill Ned, Lord Howland Reed stabs Ser Arthur through the back of his neck. Ned picks up Dawn and finishes off the knight of the Kingsguard with it. After killing Ser Arthur, Ned hears a woman scream and then heads for the Tower of Joy, though he pauses when Bran calls out to him.
In Braavos, Arya Stark watches a play mocking the War of the Five Kings as part of an assignment from the Faceless Men. The actor playing Ned depicts him as a stereotypical "country bumpkin", much to Arya's displeasure.
In a later vision, Bran witnesses Ned hugging Benjen and bidding his father, Rickard, farewell before his departure to be fostered at the Vale. After the Three-Eyed Raven frantically passes all of his knowledge to Bran, he sees several images, some of them of his father, such as Ned's beheading and his fight with Dayne.
After the victory at the Battle of the Bastards, Jon and Sansa decide to bury Rickon, recently murdered by Ramsay Bolton, besides their late father at the crypts of Winterfell, indicating that Ned's bones reached the castle and were interred at some point prior to the castle falling to the ironborn.
It is revealed that Lyanna is Jon Snow's mother and that Eddard is his uncle, not his father.
Bran later returns to the vision of the Tower of Joy, picking up from Ned entering the tower. He arrives at a room where he sees her sister Lyanna lying in a bed and a slice in her stomach. Ned calls the present maidens for help but Lyanna stops him and tells him to take care of her recently born son, fathered by Rhaegar. Lyanna whispers to her brother that her son's name is Aegon Targaryen and pleads for Ned to promise that he'll protect her child, knowing that Robert will kill her son if he finds out of his Targaryen blood. As Ned takes her baby into his arms, Lyanna passes away. To protect his sister's son from Robert, Ned returns to Winterfell with his infant nephew, names him 'Jon', and claims him as his own illegitimate son, raising Jon as his own child alongside his trueborn children.
During Jon and Sansa's conversation, Jon remembers Ned telling him and his brothers that, "Everything before the word 'but' is horse-shit." Sansa tells Jon she never heard him say that and Jon recalls that their father didn't say this in front of his daughters, but his sons.
Sansa remarks to the newly crowned Jon, that even though she loved Ned and Robb, both made mistakes which led to their deaths.
Ned's statue at the Winterfell crypt.
While Jon is visiting his "father's" tomb, he is interrupted by Petyr Baelish, who comments on how he didn't always see eye to eye with Ned, but they both loved Catelyn. Petyr then reveals he loves Sansa in the same way, prompting Jon to angrily slam Petyr against the wall and tell him not to touch his sister. Afterward, Jon leaves the crypt and Petyr follows a few moments after to avoid association with a fight between them.
When Jon Snow visits Daenerys Targaryen at Dragonstone, she makes it clear that Ned was clearly on Robert's side during his rebellion and was, therefore, a traitor.
Upon Arya's return to Winterfell, she manages to sneak away from disbelieving guards and into the crypts. She looks upon the statue of her father, and is then reunited with Sansa, where they both discuss how the statue doesn't resemble Eddard. Sansa says that there is no one left who would remember his face and therefore make an accurate statue, to which Arya says that they are still alive and remember him.
Jon and Gendry bond over their fathers, Ned and Robert, having been friends. Jon tells Gendry that he saw Robert Baratheon at Winterfell and Gendry tells Jon that he met Ned in King's Landing. Jon reveals he grew up on stories about their fathers and Gendry says he heard they fought together and won, telling Jon he wants to join him on their mission beyond the Wall.
Arya enters Petyr's chamber and rummages through his study and furniture. While searching through his mattress, she finds a scroll written by Sansa. This turns out to be the scroll that Sansa wrote to their late brother Robb Stark urging him to bend the knee to King Joffrey Baratheon. Arya is unaware that Sansa had written the letter under duress from Queen Cersei in an attempt to save their father.
Jorah Mormont and Jon discuss their fathers, Jeor Mormont and Ned Stark. They talk about their fathers both being honorable men who met unjust ends. Jorah admits that Ned Stark was right to exile him for his crimes.
Cersei says she believes Jon will be true to his word because he is Ned Stark's son.
When Jon reveals that he has pledged himself to Daenerys, he talks about his father and explains his reasons for telling the truth, "Talk about my father if you want, tell me that's the attitude that got him killed, but when enough people make false promises, words stop meaning anything. Then there are no more answers, only better and better lies. And lies won't help us in this fight."
During Jon and Theon's conversation, they talk about Ned. Jon tells Theon, "Our father was more of a father to you than yours ever was. And you betrayed him." Theon agrees. Jon continues, "But you never lost him. He’s a part of you, just like he’s a part of me."
At Petyr's surprise trial in Winterfell, Bran reveals Baelish's betrayal of Eddard in shocking detail. Arya subsequently slits Littlefinger's throat with his own dagger, avenging her father. After the trial, Sansa and Arya rebuild their bond and Sansa repeats Ned's words about how the pack survives. Both girls confide that they miss him.
When Samwell Tarly arrives at Winterfell to help his old friend Jon, he prompts Bran to return to his vision at the Tower of Joy, where he hears Lyanna whisper Jon Snow's true name to Ned: Aegon.
Jon remembers Ned as the most honorable man he ever knew, and doubts that Ned would lie to him about his parentage all his life when Sam tells him the truth about his parentage. Sam explains Ned only lied to save Jon from Robert Baratheon and that Ned swore to his sister Lyanna he would protect Jon no matter what.
Eddard Stark was a man of principle, being patient, cautious, intelligent, noble and possessing an immense sense of duty. He was remembered profusely for being extremely honorable and a firmly moral character at heart. He always reacted to situations calmly and reasonably, even if the situations endangered him or the people he loved. He was a skilled and fierce warrior but certainly preferred the diplomatic and peaceful solution to situations, even if that solution was martial law. He, himself, remarked that he didn't fear death, and recollected that he grew up with soldiers - Cersei elaborated that Eddard's older brother Brandon was born to lead, whilst he was born to follow. In his own words, Ned explained that he "learned how to die a long time ago." Ned viewed situations and individuals by the scope of their moral compass, and judged almost everything on that perspective. He also speculated the concept that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword, showing that he can be pragmatic in his sense of honor. In spite of that, he was not narrow-minded and did not appear prejudiced, arrogant or self-serving.
Eddard Stark fights Jaime Lannister.
Ned was a very loving father to all of his children, including Jon Snow, his "bastard son", even though Catelyn was of a different opinion. He was very patient with Sansa's dreamy notions, visibly tolerating her adoration of the idea that she'd marry a handsome prince. When he tried to point out to her that Joffrey lacked bravery, strength of character, and even morality, a 13-year old Sansa was unable to see the truth at the time. He had a strong relationship with Arya, and was one of the few who could tolerate her feisty, adventurous mentality, and even encouraged it. He was, in many ways, like his son Robb, in that his sense of honor and duty ruled every aspect of his being, and he was a charismatic leader to those who served him. Ned had good relationships with both Robb and Jon Snow, the latter who Ned raised as his own alongside his lawful children. Like Robb, Jon inherited Ned’s traits of honor and duty. Ned treated Jon as his son - regardless of his legitimacy, and despite Jon being his nephew, not his son by blood. Ned was willing to sacrifice his own honor to protect Jon, and spent years letting everyone - including his whole family - believe that Jon was his bastard son to ensure Jon's protection. Ned also took responsability on Cath's actions blaming himself for the arrest of Tyrion Lannister despite being unaware of it until he was informed very late, this proves that Ned was capable of sacrifice his honor in order to protect his family. Ned's death provoked such a brutal reaction from all of his family because they all loved him more than words could say.
Eddard was proficient in combat, both in strategy and in a duel. He killed Ser Gerold Hightower, survived the Battle of the Trident where he cut down a dozen knights and held his own impressively against the younger Jaime Lannister. He had earned the respect of men like Ser Arthur Dayne, the greatest warrior of his generation - indeed, Ned's sense of honor seemed to impress everyone around him, including the rigid and cold Stannis Baratheon and the cunning Varys. Aside from being selfless, dutiful and brave, he was slow to anger and thus he was one of the very, very few who could withstand the temper and misgivings of Robert Baratheon, with whom he shared a relationship that was a hair's breadth from being considered a brotherly one. Robert admitted that he lacked love for Stannis and Renly Baratheon, and had instead called Ned his brother, showing that Robert's admiration for his old comrade was tremendous. Ned's calm and reasonable mentality was respected firmly by Robert, who recognized that Ned was the only one who would dare say no to him for the right reasons. Robert obviously trusted Ned, begging him on his deathbed to help Joffrey in a way that Robert himself had failed and even naming the man as Protector of the Realm until Joffrey came of age.
However, he had the fatal weakness of being a poor politician, preferring to take the honorable route than doing what would politically benefit him - Cersei speculated that, in the game of thrones, one had to take what was in arm's reach or be damned, but Ned disagreed because the fight he fought was never to survive, but to preserve the lives of those he loved. Despite being usually straightforward, his honor could oftentimes blind him to reason, leading him to make highly impractical decisions and judgments. While intelligent, he wasn't the most imaginative person, which further exacerbated by his rigid sense of honor, made him unable to compromise or consider alternatives, usually going with the simplest and most straightforward course of action. Perhaps the best example is how he confronted Cersei about her children being fathered by Cersei's twin brother Jaime and not by Robert Baratheon. To save Cersei's children, whom he viewed as innocent and undeserving of punishment, he had proposed exile, even though it was obvious (to anyone with common sense) that Cersei would not accept Ned's offer - which meant giving up her power position and luxurious life and becoming a fugitive vagabond; instead, having already plotted Robert's death before Ned's confrontation, she told him to bend the knee to her son Joffrey and then arrested Ned when he refused.
One of Eddard's main flaws was his blunt, tactless attitude (similarly to Stannis). He failed to understand that "you catch more flies with honey rather than with vinegar." The best example for that is the manner he expressed his opinion about the suggestion to assassinate Daenerys: by acting so bluntly and disrespectfully toward Robert, Eddard only managed to anger him and make him stick to his decision. It never occurred to Eddard that he should have taken a different approach, like the way Davos tried to dissuade his king on similar circumstances (in the novels): talk with the king in private, calmly and softly, appeal to his conscience. Eventually, Robert did regret his decision, but by then it was too late.
Eddard often evaluated matters and people by the evidence he saw with his own eyes, rarely ever looking underneath the surface or at the bigger picture. This made him a poor judge of character and he had a bad habit of trusting people, which was a mistake he disastrously made with Petyr Baelish. He also did not predict that Cersei Lannister would be unreasonable enough to turn down his offer of mercy if and when Robert found out that Joffrey, Tommen, and Myrcella weren't his children; a mistake that cost Ned not just his own life, but set off a chain of events that has also so far led to the deaths of his wife, two of his sons and many other lives. Finally, he near-automatically judged Jaime to have betrayed his king for dishonorable reasons the moment he discovered the Kingslayer sitting on the Iron Throne with the Mad King's corpse lying at his feet, without asking the knight his side of the story and despite the fact he was a rebel himself. Still, Jaime's arrogance did nothing to dispel this misconception.
Occasionally, Ned could be self-righteous in his honor, acting as an "honorable fool", as Robert called him. He was quick to judge Jaime's actions as dishonorable, despite himself publicly proclaiming to have sired a child out of wedlock with another woman, which he did in order to protect his nephew (Lyanna's son Jon Snow, birth name Aegon Targaryen) from Robert's wrath. He also accused Jaime of sticking to his Kingsguard vows when his family was being tortured and murdered by Aerys, something he did not do when meeting Barristan Selmy. He also had a tendency to choose personal honor over his duties as a leader of millions, ignoring pragmatic decisions for ones that would allow him to maintain his dignity, even at the potential danger of those he swore to protect (though he usually believed that he'd be capable of warding off the threats). This could be seen in the way he chose to deal with Cersei, and his refusal to participate in Daenerys's assassination, in spite of the immense threat her brother and the Dothraki presented to the Seven Kingdoms (which indeed has been realized, several years later, in an extremely devastating manner).
Furthermore, as he "grew up with soldiers", he tended to put a lot of faith in the mindset and capabilities of efficient warriors and commanders in many matters. Ned had told his illegitimate son (revealed to be nephew) Jon that true friendship is made on the battlefield. This sometimes caused him to ignore personality aspects that would have a negative effect in certain situations. He was unable to predict that Robert, despite having been his best friend, did not have the attributes required to make an effective king. Ned's belief in the importance of martial skill is supported when he stated to Renly that he believed Stannis's military accomplishments would help make him an efficient monarch.
Ned was also very stubborn, obsessed with doing things in the "right way". When he learned the truth about Joffrey and his brothers he had the intention of telling to Robert what he'd discovered and attempting to give the throne to Stannis, due to being the rightful heir, despite fully knowing this would start a power struggle inside of the kingdom. He also attempted to arrest Cersei and all her children and take them into custody even though this act could be seen as treason. He even refused to accept the advice Varys gave him about kneeling and accepting Joffrey as the legitimate king, also ignoring the fact that his own daughter begged for his life. This proved how far Ned'd go to stick to his principles and moral standards to the point of choosing his own death rather than swallow his pride and break his honorable code.
Despite his principles, Eddard was not above acting selfishly, with disregard to other people's lives: when he was first told about Tyrion's kidnapping, he did absolutely nothing to defuse the situation - although he knew well that the Lannisters would never dismiss such offense, and innocent lives would be undoubtedly lost as a result. He had two more opportunities to resolve the matter peacefully (when confronting Jaime and Robert), but chose to pour oil on the flames by falsely claiming that Catelyn acted at his command. Eddard's pride cost many lives - among them Jory, Wyl, Heward, and residents of the Riverlands.
However at his final moments Ned did one last act making sure his daughter Arya couldn't see him being executed, so he could redeem himself protecting his daughter one last time, and when he realized Arya was away and safe he accepted his death in peace.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Eddard Stark is in his mid-thirties when the story begins. He has a reputation for chivalry, honor, honesty, and command, but can also sometimes be remote. He has a frosty relationship with Jaime, believing that the latter should have been, at the very least, stripped of his rank in the Kingsguard for his murder of the former king. A stoic yet fair and caring man, Eddard puts a great deal of importance on his family.
In contrast to the show, when Robert asked Eddard to replace Jon Arryn as Hand of the King, Ned wanted to decline, but went south at his wife's urging to investigate Arryn's death.
Eddard is also an accomplished battlefield commander, leading armies in Robert's Rebellion and the Greyjoy Rebellion. However, the books make no particular mention of his skills with a sword, other than the rumor of him killing Arthur Dayne in single combat. The books do mention his brother's swordsmanship skills, which were most likely condensed into Ned for the TV show.
Unlike the show, Ned's bones are sent to Riverrun as part of a plot orchestrated by Tyrion to free Jaime. Afterward, Catelyn assigns a retinue of Stark men, under the command of Hallis Mollen, to deliver them to Winterfell. However, with Moat Cailin held by the ironborn, the whereabouts of the retinue and their cargo remains unknown. Lady Dustin, who resents Ned (even after his death) for not bringing her late husband's bones to be buried in his ancestral home, intends to pay Ned back by feeding his bones to her dogs.
The Faith of the Seven are outraged that Ned's execution was performed on the steps of the Great Sept of Baelor, believing this act of bloodshed profaned the holy grounds, and marks the beginning of a deterioration in relations between the crown and the Faith.
Daenerys, who has not been told yet the whole ugly truth about her father and the atrocities he committed during his reign (among them the execution of Rickard and Brandon Stark), loathes and resents Ned; in her eyes, the "cold-eyed Eddard Stark with his frozen heart" was one the "Usurper's dogs" alongside the Lannisters, and that he was a traitor who met a traitor’s end. Jorah Mormont assures Daenerys that Ned was not a traitor, although he rebelled against her father, and Selmy tells her that Ned objected to Robert's decision to assassinate her - but she does not change her mind about Ned.
Histories & Lore:"Greyjoy Rebellion: Robb Stark""Robert's Rebellion: Catelyn Stark""The North""The Riverlands""House Baelish""Robert's Rebellion: Barristan Selmy"
Conquest & Rebellion: An Animated History of the Seven Kingdoms:"The Last Dragons"
Lady Catelyn Stark, née Tully, was born into House Tully as the daughter of Hoster Tully, the Lord Paramount of the Trident, and sister of Lysa and Edmure Tully. She was the wife of Eddard Stark and the mother of his five children.
Catelyn was born into House Tully and is the eldest child of Lord Hoster and Lady Minisa Tully. She has a younger brother, Edmure, and a younger sister, Lysa. Petyr Baelish was fostered with the Tullys and Catelyn grew up with him.[citation needed]
Catelyn's wedding to Eddard Stark
She was betrothed to marry Brandon Stark of Winterfell, but he was brutally murdered along with his father, Lord Rickard Stark, by the Mad King, Aerys II Targaryen, after his Prince Rhaegar purportedly kidnapped Brandon's sister Lyanna. Catelyn instead married Brandon's brother, Eddard. Though they barely knew one another when they wed, they have formed a strong and loving marriage.
Catelyn and Eddard have five children together: Robb, Sansa, Arya, Bran, and Rickon. Eddard's illegitimate son, Jon Snow, also lives alongside her trueborn children with Eddard in Winterfell. Catelyn resents this and it is the only source of friction between her and her husband.[citation needed]
Catelyn has some independent political influence. A former ward of her father's and her childhood friend, Petyr Baelish, known as "Littlefinger", is the king's master of coin and one of his closest advisers in King's Landing.[citation needed]
Catelyn says that she hasn't been to the capital city of King's Landing since nine years before her husband went there to be the new Hand of the King, which would be around the time of the Greyjoy Rebellion.
Catelyn and Eddard watch Bran.
Catelyn and Eddard watch as their sons practice archery. Ser Rodrik Cassel arrives to tell them that a deserter from the Night's Watch has been captured. Eddard decides to bring their son Bran with him for the first time so Bran can witness him execute the deserter. Catelyn protests that Bran is still too young and Eddard replies that Bran won't be a boy forever and winter is coming. While they are gone, they find a litter of six direwolf pups (the animal that is the sigil of House Stark), one for each of the Stark children, and Eddard agrees to allow them to adopt the wolves.
Catelyn prepares to tell Ned of Jon Arryn's death.
A raven bears news of Jon Arryn's death to Winterfell, where Catelyn tells Eddard the bad news. She also tells him that King Robert Baratheon, and much of the royal court rides for Winterfell. Eddard realizes that Robert means to name him Hand of the King in Arryn's place, a prospect that does not thrill him.
As the royal court approaches Winterfell, Catelyn spots Bran's direwolf and remarks on how fast the direwolves grow. She catches Bran climbing Winterfell's walls and Bran is excited that he saw the king arriving. Catelyn scolds him, "How many times have I told you? No climbing!" and has Bran promise her that he'll stop. Bran bites his lip and promises. Catelyn softens and notices how Bran always looks at his feet when he lies. She tells Bran to run and tell his father that the king is close.
Catelyn and Cersei observe Robert's actions.
Catelyn joins her husband in welcoming King Robert and his family. At the feast, she and Queen Cersei Lannister exchange cordial words once they learn that Robert means to marry Prince Joffrey to Sansa. Cersei approves of Sansa and thinks she will thrive at court in the capital. Later that night, Eddard and Catelyn receive a letter, delivered to Maester Luwin by a messenger from the Eyrie. The letter is from Catelyn's sister, Lady Lysa Arryn, the widow of Jon Arryn. In the letter, Lysa says that Jon Arryn was murdered at the order of the Queen, and the Lannisters conspire against King Robert. Luwin counsels that Eddard should accept Robert's offer so he can investigate the truth of the matter and protect the King, while Catelyn prefers that he remain in Winterfell. Eddard agrees with Luwin and accepts the offer. He plans to take both of their daughters to court with him.
Catelyn sits by Bran's bed.
Catelyn tends to Bran after he falls from a tower, and prays for his recovery. Cersei visits Catelyn, sitting by her son's side, and tells her that her first child, a beautiful, black-haired boy, was stillborn. She and Robert were grief-stricken and her prayers and tears were for naught. She offers to pray for Bran's survival, hoping that this time the gods will listen. Catelyn is angry when Jon Snow comes to say his goodbyes to Bran as he leaves for Castle Black with their uncle Benjen and wishes for Bran to recover from his coma. Catelyn orders Jon to leave. When Eddard also comes to says his goodbyes to both Bran and Catelyn, Catelyn is angered at his departure while their son remains comatose.
Catelyn continues to watch Bran.
Catelyn's refusal to leave Bran's side starts to cause problems for the smooth running of the castle. Robb offers to work with Maester Luwin to fill vacancies left by the departure of Eddard's retinue. Robb is drawn away from Bran's room by a fire. This proves to be a distraction to allow an assassin to reach Bran. Catelyn holds the assassin off long enough for Summer to enter the chamber and tear out his throat.
Catelyn discovers a blonde, Lannister hair.
The next day, Catelyn goes to the tower where Bran fell and finds a blonde strand of hair inside. She summons Robb, Theon Greyjoy, Luwin and Ser Rodrik Cassel, the master-at-arms, and tells that that she suspects that the Lannisters tried to kill Bran because he saw something in the tower. Robb and Theon are for making war, but Luwin schools them to caution. Catelyn decides that Ned must know the truth and resolves to meet him in King's Landing. Ser Rodrik escorts her, while Robb commands the castle in her absence. Bran awakens after her departure but is paralyzed by his injuries.
Catelyn arrives in King's Landing.
Catelyn and Ser Rodrik arrive at King's Landing and attempt to sneak into the city, but are spotted by an agent of Littlefinger. They are taken to meet Littlefinger at a brothel he owns, where Lord Varys, the king's spymaster, is also waiting: one of his 'little birds' told him they were coming. Catelyn is angered by the way she's been treated, but asks Littlefinger for aid in finding the people who tried to have Bran killed. Littlefinger says that the elaborate dagger wielded by the assassin used to be his, but that he lost it in a gamble with Tyrion Lannister.
Catelyn makes herself known to Ned.
Littlefinger fetches Eddard to meet his wife. Lord Eddard is furious when he realizes he has been brought to a brothel. Thinking it is a bad joke, he assaults Baelish, and is stunned when Catelyn makes her presence known and tells him to stop. After hearing her news, he vows to find the truth and expose the Lannisters to Robert. Littlefinger agrees to be his ally in this, citing the affection he once bore Catelyn as a youngster. Despite a plea to her husband to see her two daughters, Ned emphasizes the danger of her duration, affectionately sending her back to Winterfell.
Returning to Winterfell, Catelyn and Ser Rodrik stop at the Crossroads Inn, planning to stay overnight. They are surprised by the arrival of Tyrion Lannister. Catelyn fails to stay incognito, then she calls on several knights present who are sworn to her father's bannermen to help her take Tyrion into custody.
Catelyn arrives at the Vale with Tyrion as her prisoner.
Catelyn publicly announces that they are traveling north to Winterfell, but instead takes Tyrion east into the Vale of Arryn. In the hills, they are attacked by warriors of the hill tribes, and Catelyn agrees to let Tyrion go unbound to defend himself. Tyrion saves Catelyn's life, but wins no more of her trust. Tyrion warns Catelyn that her sister Lysa has become mentally unbalanced following her husband's death. His warning rings true when on reaching the Eyrie, to which they are escorted to by Ser Vardis Egen, Captain of the Guards of the Eyrie, Catelyn is unsettled to see how her much her sister Lysa has changed. Lysa and her hysterical son, Lord Robin Arryn, order Tyrion thrown into a sky cell, a prison with a wall that opens onto a sheer drop.
Tyrion defends his innocence and demands a trial by combat. The sellsword Bronn, who accompanied the party from the Crossroads Inn, agrees to stand for Tyrion. Bronn defeats Ser Vardis Egen, who takes Lady Lysa's part. Tyrion's victory signifies his innocence in the eyes of the gods and he is released.
Catelyn lingers at the Eyrie trying to convince Lysa to commit the Vale's knights to oppose the Lannisters. Lysa is unwilling to take any action which might endanger her son. Catelyn finally decides to leave after Lysa delays telling her about Eddard's arrest in King's Landing, following King Robert's death. Catelyn and Ser Rodrik ride north and meet Robb's army as he marches south. They join his war council, though Catelyn is careful to not embarrass her son or make him appear indecisive. Catelyn points out that to confront the two Lannister armies that have invaded the Riverlands, her father's lands, Robb's army must cross the Green Fork of the Trident at the Twins, which means negotiating with the famously unreliable and prickly Lord Walder Frey.
Catelyn watches as Robb Stark addresses his troops following the Battle of the Whispering Wood.
To Robb's discontent, Catelyn goes into the Twins alone and wins Walder to their cause by agreeing that Robb will marry one of his daughters, along with a number of other, minor concessions. Once across the river, Robb divides his forces, sending a small force to delay Lord Tywin Lannister's army while Robb force-marches his main force to confront Jaime Lannister near Riverrun. Robb wins a great victory and takes Jaime Lannister prisoner, to Catelyn's pride.
Catelyn comforts her son, vowing to "kill them all".
Word reaches the camp that Lord Eddard has been executed. Catelyn walks stoically through the camp, while the men bow to her out of respect. Once in the woods, she falls against a tree and weeps. Hearing noise coming from ahead, she goes on to find Robb striking a tree with his sword. Catelyn calls him, then tells him that he is ruining his sword. Robb drops the sword and collapses in her arms. Robb wants to kill them all, and his mother says they will, but after they secure the release of Arya and Sansa.
They are joined by many of the river lords loyal to Catelyn's father, and word arrives that both Stannis and Renly Baratheon have claimed the Iron Throne, severely outnumbering the Lannisters. The northmen and river lords debate on which king to support, until Lord Greatjon Umber suggests that they secure independence for themselves. He names Robb as King in the North, and the other lords join him. Catelyn visits the captive Jaime Lannister, who admits to pushing Bran from the tower but doesn't reveal why. He taunts her, saying widowhood suits her and suggests that the gods aren't real as they don't care about justice. Catelyn strikes him, but Jaime knows that the Starks won't kill him as long as his sister holds Sansa and Arya hostage.
Catelyn is a key advisor to her son Robb Stark in his role as King in the North. She warns Robb against trusting Balon Greyjoy because of his reputation for rebellion. She unsuccessfully tries to persuade Robb to exchange the captive Jaime Lannister for his sisters Arya and Sansa. Robb tasks her with traveling to the Stormlands to seek an alliance with King Renly Baratheon.
Catelyn meets Brienne of Tarth.
Catelyn travels to Renly's camp and finds him hosting a tournament. She watches Brienne win the event and a place on Renly's kingsguard. Catelyn delivers Robb's message and admonishes Renly for treating the war as a game. She is welcomed into Renly's camp by his new wife Margaery Tyrell.
Catelyn meets with Stannis Baratheon.
Petyr Baelish also arrives at the camp. Catelyn confronts him for his betrayal of Ned and rejects his romantic overtures. He delivers a message from Hand of the King Tyrion Lannister; he would be willing to exchange Jaime for Catelyn's daughters. Tyrion has also sent Ned's remains as a sign of good faith. Catelyn later accompanies Renly to a parley with his brother King Stannis Baratheon but the two are unable to reach a compromise.
Brienne swears fealty to Catelyn.
However, she does secure an alliance between Renly and Robb. This alliance is short lived, however, as Renly is assassinated by a shadow just after he has agreed to an alliance with Robb. This is witnessed by Catelyn and his kingsguard Brienne is mistakenly blamed for the death and she flees the camp with Catelyn. Brienne later swears fealty to Catelyn. Renly's army splinters with the forces of House Tyrell fleeing to Highgarden and the rest of his bannermen joining Stannis.
Catelyn meets Talisa.
Catelyn finds Robb's army camped in the Westerlands. She interrupts him talking to Talisa Maegyr and warns him that he is not free to follow his heart. Roose Bolton brings troubling news from Winterfell; Theon Greyjoy has betrayed Robb and seized the lightly defended castle. Theon has taken both Bran and Rickon hostage. Robb denies Catelyn's request to treat with Theon and says that he will execute the traitor. Roose convinces Robb to let his bastard retake Winterfell.
Jaime escapes but is soon recaptured. Robb is away negotiating the surrender of the Crag. Lord Rickard Karstark demands Jaime's head because he murdered his son Torrhen Karstark in the escape attempt. Catelyn convinces Rickard to await Robb's return but fears that his patience will not last the night.
Catelyn goes to Jaime's cell
Robb places his mother, Lady Catelyn, under arrest for releasing Jaime Lannister.
She visits Jaime's cell and accuses him of being a man without honor. Jaime asserts that he has more honor than some; he reveals that Cersei is the only one he has slept with and reminds Catelyn how her husband cheated on her and fathered Jon Snow. Catelyn releases Jaime, planning to exchange him for her captive daughters. She sends Brienne to escort him to King's Landing. Brienne successfully smuggles him out of the camp and travels by rowboat to evade pursuit. Robb is furious that Catelyn acted behind his back and orders her kept under guard. He says that Jaime has played her for a fool and that she has weakened their position.
Robb visits Catelyn in her tent to discuss his plan to break his betrothal to House Frey to marry Talisa. She reveals that Eddard did not love her when they first married and explains that they built a strong, enduring love over time. She warns against recklessly breaking his oath for passion but he says that she has no right to call anyone reckless. Going against his mother's advice, Robb marries Talisa in a secret ceremony.
Catelyn, still Robb's prisoner, is among the Northern forces that march on Harrenhal, only to find the castle abandoned, and the 200 prisoners slain. Among the dead, Catelyn identifies the body of Ser Jaremy Mallister, her father's bannerman. Robb then orders his mother imprisoned within the fortress.
Lord Roose Bolton delivers two messenger-raven missives, each of which brings bad news. First, Catelyn's father Hoster Tully has finally died after a long illness at his castle of Riverrun. Second, Roose delivers a letter from his bastard son Ramsay Snow, falsely stating that the ironborn torched Winterfell and put all of its inhabitants to the sword, and then fled all before his force arrived there. There has been no sighting of Bran or Rickon, and though Robb hopes that they are still alive, there is a strong possibility that they are dead. Moreover, there has been no word of Theon, and if he took the boys captive the Greyjoys haven't sent out any demands. This double-blow reduces Catelyn to tears and she laments that she had not seen her father in years. She is horrified at the thought that Bran and Rickon were in danger while she was away and could not protect them, and are now likely dead.
Talisa notices that Catelyn is making a prayer wheel for the Faith of the Seven, and offers to help. Catelyn explains that they can only be made by mothers who are praying for the welfare of their children. Catelyn reveals that she has only made them twice before, one of which was when she was praying for Bran to wake from his coma. It worked after a fashion, as Bran did survive but he lost the use of his legs. Talisa asks after the other time, and Catelyn reveals that when the boys were young children, one of them had a pox. Maester Luwin said that if he survived the night, he would be all right, and Catelyn sat with him all through the night. Catelyn reveals this boy was Jon Snow, and when her husband first brought him home as a baby, she couldn't bear to look at him. She inwardly prayed for the gods to take him away and make him die. When Jon came down with the pox, Catelyn tells Talisa, "And I knew I was the worst woman who ever lived. A murderer. I'd condemned this poor, innocent child to a horrible death all because I was jealous of his mother. A woman he didn't even know." So Catelyn prayed to all seven gods to let Jon live and made a prayer wheel. She stayed up with him all night, praying to the gods that if they forgave her earlier wish that Jon would die, she promised she would urge Eddard to have Jon legitimized as a Stark and she would raise him as her own son. Jon recovered but Catelyn tells Talisa, "And I couldn't keep my promise. And everything that's happened since then... all this horror that's come to my family... it's all because I couldn't love a motherless child." In grief over the loss of her father and husband, and over the apparent deaths of her two youngest sons, Catelyn believes the gods are punishing her with this war.
Catelyn attends her father's funeral.
Catelyn and Brynden mourn.
At Riverrun in the Riverlands, the castle-seat of House Tully, the funeral of the recently deceased Lord Hoster Tully is held on the banks of the Red Fork of the Trident River. In Catelyn's old chamber in the castle, she mourns with her uncle Brynden over her father's death. She asks him if he made peace with his older brother, whom he had been fighting with for the past thirty years. Brynden explains that he did: on his deathbed, Hoster told him to stop calling himself "the Blackfish" as it was a stupid joke created over thirty years ago by Brynden to symbolize his bad relationship with his older brother, and it wasn't very funny to begin with. Brynden emotionally laments that he's been calling himself "the Blackfish" of the Tully family for so long that he's practically forgotten his own name. Catelyn is happy that her uncle was able to make peace with her father before he passed, and is upset that she couldn't have been there. She reminisces that she watched from this window in her childhood whenever her father left, but now he won't be coming back. She tearfully wonders if her sons Bran and Rickon similarly watched for her return at Winterfell when she failed to arrive to save them. Brynden insists that neither he nor Robb have given up hope that the boys may be alive and in hiding, and urges her to be strong for Robb.
When Lord Rickard Karstark murders the prisoners Willem and Martyn Lannister in their cells, Robb is disgusted and insists that Rickard be executed. Edmure Tully, Catelyn's brother, insists that if word of this leaves Riverrun, Tywin Lannister will exact heavy reprisals for the deaths of his young nephews. Therefore, he suggests that they just quietly bury the boys, and simply keep silent about their deaths until the war is over. Robb, however, refuses to be a liar, saying he cannot fight a war in the name of justice if he will not serve justice to murderers within his own ranks. All of Robb's advisors tell him this is a bad idea. Catelyn and Talisa warn him that the Karstark soldiers will abandon his cause and return home if he executes their lord, and they are already badly outnumbered. Catelyn says they should keep Lord Rickard hostage, and Edmure agrees, adding to tell the other Karstarks that no harm will come to him so long as they remain loyal.
Robb ignores their pleas, and he has Lord Karstark brought out to the courtyard of Riverrun to be executed during a driving rainstorm. Karstark points out that not only are both of their Houses descended from the First Men, but the Starks and Karstarks are kin (as House Karstark is a cadet branch of House Stark, founded centuries ago by younger son Karlon Stark). Robb says that their blood relationship did not stop Rickard from betraying him and won't stop Robb from executing him now, but Rickard says it isn't meant to: he wants it to haunt Robb until the day he dies. With his last words, Lord Rickard says that Robb will be cursed (as a kinslayer) and that Robb is no king of his. Obedient to the laws of his father Eddard Stark - that the man who passes the sentence must swing the sword - Robb pronounces the sentence of death and personally beheads Lord Rickard.
Catelyn and Robb re-ally with House Frey.
Robb and his advisors meet with Black Walder and Lothar Frey to discuss an alliance for his planned attack on Casterly Rock. The Freys carry Walder Frey's demands for an alliance, which includes a formal apology from Robb, the castle Harrenhal and all of its lands and incomes, and for Edmure Tully to marry Roslin, one of his daughters. Edmure is reluctant to marry a woman he has never met, but is eventually convinced by the group to go through with the arrangement.
In the Riverlands, en route to the Twins, Robb Stark's army is forced to make camp, their progress delayed by heavy rain. Catelyn warns them that the prickly Lord Walder Frey will take the delay as a deliberate insult to him, but Edmure Tully points out that Frey is getting the wedding he wanted; his sister counters that he is getting a wedding, but not the one he wanted, glaring at her son and his wife as she says so, pointing out that Frey wanted one of his daughters wed to a king. Robb retorts that Edmure is the best match House Frey has been offered in its history.
Catelyn gives a final piece of advise to Robb.
Catelyn is later asked to confirm that his plan to attack Casterly Rock is fool-proof, which can only be achieved if Walder cooperates. Initially expresses the danger of failure, stating the possibility that Tywin Lannister's army will cut them off due to Lannisport's adjacency to the Sunset Sea, Catelyn later states that Robb should attack.
Robb's army arrives at the Twins for Edmure's wedding. Enduring Lord Walder Frey's insults directed at him and his wife, Robb makes a public apology to Lord Frey's daughters and granddaughters for breaking his promise to marry one of them. Frey accepts the apology and offers the Starks and their men his hospitality.
Catelyn converses with Brynden.
Catelyn upon hearing "The Rains of Castamere."
That night Edmure is introduced to his bride Roslin Frey, discovering much to his relief that she is a beauty. The wedding and the feast that follows it are quite celebratory and lively affairs, with all the participants in high spirits. As the celebrations reach their heights Lord Walder calls for the bedding ceremony. Robb agrees and the bride and groom are carried off to their wedding bed, Roslin carried off by the male guests and followed closely by Edmure, who is collected by the Frey women. After they leave and the festivities begin to wind down, Catelyn becomes suspicious when she notices Black Walder Rivers close the banquet hall doors and the musicians in the gallery begin playing "The Rains of Castamere" - the song commemorating House Lannister's decisive and brutal victory against the rebellious House Reyne of Castamere. Walder rises to make a toast to Robb, and Catelyn, seated beside Lord Roose Bolton, notices that the latter is wearing mail under his clothing. Realizing they have been lead into a trap, Catelyn slaps Roose across the face and screams a warning to Robb, but by then it is too late. Lord Walder signals his men to attack. In what becomes known as the infamous Red Wedding, Lothar draws a knife and repeatedly stabs the pregnant Talisa in the stomach, killing her. Before he can react, Robb is shot by the musicians with crossbows several times and falls to the ground. Numerous other Stark men are killed by the crossbow bolts or set upon by Frey soldiers.
Catelyn is slain
Catelyn, having been wounded by a crossbow bolt, crawls across the floor and seizes out from under Walder's table his cowering young wife, Joyeuse. Catelyn holds a knife to the girl's throat and threatens to kill her if Walder does not negotiate an end to the attack. She demands that Robb, who merely lingers despondent and heartbroken beside his wife's corpse, be allowed to leave. Walder refuses her, dismissing his wife with the comment "I'll find another" and Roose Bolton, who had fled the hall when the massacre began, seizes Robb, saying "The Lannisters send their regards", before stabbing him in the heart. Robb's last word is "Mother" and he maintains contact with her as he collapses to the floor. Mad with grief at the death of her firstborn son, Catelyn kills Walder's wife in retaliation before Black Walder cuts Catelyn's throat.
Emotionally crushed by the deaths of Catelyn and Robb, Sansa refuses to eat despite pleas from Shae. When Tyrion attempts to comfort her, she reveals to him that she lies awake all night thinking about how her mother and brother died, having learned that the Freys had sewn Grey Wind's head onto Robb's decapitated corpse. Her mother’s corpse was also desecrated by being flung like trash from the battlements of the Twins into the Trident to rot, an apparent mockery of traditional House Tully funeral customs. Despite the fact that Catelyn tried to have him executed, even after he saved her life, Tyrion tells Sansa that he admired her mother, saying she was a strong woman who was fierce when it came to protecting her children. He tells Sansa that Catelyn would want her to carry on. Sansa excuses herself to go to godswood where she is later watched by Jaime and Brienne, who reminds the former of the promise he made to Catelyn. Jaime acknowledges this but counters that the situation has become quite complicated due to multiple factors: Catelyn is now dead, Arya hasn’t been seen since Ned’s execution, and Sansa is now married to Tyrion.
Jaime’s dilemma to fulfill his oath to Catelyn becomes even more complicated when Joffrey is later fatally poisoned at his own wedding and Sansa flees with Dontos Hollard in the commotion. A vengeful Cersei summons Jaime to her chambers, inquiring why Catelyn set him free. Jaime replies that he swore by all the gods that if Catelyn’s daughters were still alive, he would return them to their mother. Cersei continues grilling Jaime to determine if he has no loyalty to Catelyn, asking if he would bring her Sansa’s head, but Jaime remains silent. He later tasks Brienne with finding Sansa to keeping her safe from those who would hand her over to Cersei, giving her the Valyrian steel sword that his father had reforged from Ned’s own sword Ice. Before departing, Brienne names the sword "Oathkeeper" and vows to find Sansa, for the sake of Jaime and Lady Catelyn.
At the Eyrie, Lysa regales Sansa with her childhood memories about Catelyn. However, she grows angry when Sansa almost mentions Littlefinger's love-triangle with Catelyn, something which has irked Lysa for years. She later becomes insanely jealous after witnessing Littlefinger (who is now married to her) kiss Sansa and threatens to throw her niece out the Moon Door but Littlefinger interrupts. Assuming a softer tone, Littlefinger manages to subdue Lysa before revealing to her horror that the only woman he ever really loved was Catelyn and pushing her out the Moon Door to her death.
En route to the Bloody Gate, Brienne and Podrick Payne stumble upon Arya and Sandor Clegane, who have just returned from The Eyrie after hearing of Lysa’s death. Upon realizing that she finally caught up with one of Catelyn’s daughters, Brienne beseeches Arya to come with her but the Hound casts aspersions on Brienne’s intentions. Each of them believing they should be the one to look after Arya, Brienne and the Hound engage in a brutal fight that ends with the latter being knocked off a cliff. However, an ever-wary Arya hides from Brienne and Pod, making the former miss her first chance to fulfill her oath to Catelyn.
Eventually, Brienne catches up with Sansa sitting at an inn with Littlefinger. Although they are surrounded by guards, Brienne approaches them and reveals to Sansa that she swore an oath to Sansa's mother Catelyn to keep her safe, but doesn't mention her run-in with Arya in Baelish's presence. Baelish counters by telling Sansa that Brienne, a complete stranger, swore oaths to protect both Catelyn and Renly Baratheon and failed at both, which prompts Sansa to reject Brienne’s offer. Despite this second setback, Brienne remains steadfast in her pledge to Catelyn and continues to follow Sansa all the way back to Winterfell.
When Sansa and Theon escape from the clutches of Ramsay Bolton, they are immediately set upon and nearly recaptured by half a dozen Bolton soldiers, but Brienne and Podrick intervene. Once the soldiers are dead, Brienne once again offers her service to Sansa, who readily accepts this time. Brienne fulfills part of her pledge to Catelyn.
Meanwhile, Catelyn's uncle Brynden, who fortuitously escaped the Red Wedding, manages to retake Riverrun from the Freys, drawing both Brienne and Jaime there for opposite purposes. When Jaime parleys with the Blackfish, the latter quips that he assumes Jaime is there to fulfill his vow to Catelyn but he doesn't see her daughters. When their meeting goes nowhere, Jaime discreetly meets with Brienne upon her arrival, he allows her to negotiate with the Blackfish so that Brynden and his men can leave the castle at night to travel to Winterfell. Before she leaves, she points out that if she is unsuccessful, then she will be compelled by honor to Catelyn to fight against Jaime. Jaime voices his hope that it doesn't come to that. Afterwards, Jaime pays a visit to the captive Edmure, and the two of them reminisce about Catelyn. Jaime mentions how she once hit him on the head with a rock when he was her prisoner, prompting Edmure to laugh. Though she undoubtedly hated him, Jaime claims he didn't hate Catelyn, even going so far as to say he actually admired her more than Eddard or Robb. Still, Jaime is ultimately successful in helping the Freys retake Riverrun, which culminates in the death of the Blackfish.
However, Catelyn is finally avenged shortly afterward by her daughter Arya when she assassinates Walder Frey and his sons, Black Walder and Lothar.
After Jon, Sansa and their allies retake Winterfell from the Boltons, Bran and Arya also return. As Brienne witnesses Catelyn's last three living children reunited, Podrick says that Catelyn would be proud of her since she kept her vow, though Brienne says she did next to nothing.
Catelyn's children also enact one last bit of justice for their mother, when they take Littlefinger down in his surprise trial, as they confirmed that he started the War of the Five Kings and betrayed her.
Catelyn was a woman who was both dutiful and complex: in many ways, she fitted the expectations of her house, and their words 'Family, Duty, Honor', but she often found herself at odds with these words. She was a loving mother, and her maternal disposition influenced much of what she did; all of her children loved her and they would come to mourn her as they did their father when she was killed.
Catelyn was capable of being a very intelligent woman, as evidenced by many of her actions during the prelude of the War of the Five Kings, and later during the war itself. She was capable of deducing that the Lannisters were behind the attempted murder of Bran. Unfortunately, she jumped to the conclusion that it was Tyrion Lannister who hired the catspaw assassin, based on Petyr Baelish's lie that the dagger belonged to Tyrion. She was also clever enough to suggest aloud that she was taking Tyrion back to Winterfell, but goes to the Eyrie instead so nobody could stop her from bringing Tyrion to justice she had mistaken him for deserving. Catelyn would later prove her wisdom in times of war by reminding Robb of the man that they were up against - Tywin Lannister - and the fact that the Lord of Casterly Rock's completely ruthless reputation would mean that Robb would have to defeat the Lannisters openly in the field if they meant to survive. Despite being more politically savvy than her husband, however, Catelyn made her fair share of mistakes, as well: she impulsively arrested Tyrion, and her trust in Littlefinger and Lysa also blinded her to the fact that time and experience had changed them both for the worse.
She was, to a great extent, a peaceful woman. This is shown when she pleaded with Renly Baratheon to make peace with Stannis instead of fighting his own brother to the death in open battle, even though she had seen the man Stannis had become and both of them knew that Stannis would never be agreeable with them. However, this did not prevent Catelyn from being incredibly fierce when she was pushed - when Loras Tyrell slighted Robb's actions during the war, she coldly repelled him by reminding the Knight of Flowers that Robb was actually fighting a war instead of playing at one. She later accosts Renly for treating this potentially disastrous war as if it were a game, showing that she had a very mature and pragmatic view of a situation. With Jaime Lannister as her prisoner, Catelyn showed disgust for him for the crimes he committed, and for what his family had done to hers; however, this did not prevent her from releasing Jaime in the hope that it would win her daughters back. When she met Tyrion Lannister, she didn't hesitate to compel the bannermen of her father into arresting him; when they reached the Eyrie, she actually tried to protect Tyrion when Lysa planned to have him executed without a trial. Also, when she heard of Ned's arrest, and of Lysa's total reluctance to contribute, she became furious when confronting her sister.
Catelyn's resentful and less loving side was brought out in the situation of Jon Snow, who was publicly believed to be her husband's illegitimate son with an unidentified woman. She speaks very coldly to Jon when he came to say goodbye to Bran, and did not farewell him when he revealed that he intended to join the Night's Watch, outright ordering him to leave. She would explain later to Talisa that, when Jon caught the pox as a young boy, she prayed for him to die, only to truly hate herself afterward for wishing such a thing on an innocent child. She promised that she would treat him as her own son and ask Ned to legitimize him if the gods let him live. However, she couldn't bring herself to keep this promise in the end. This shows some amount of hypocrisy on her part, but it also shows that she is self-reproachful as well - this sets her vastly apart from her sister Lysa, who was completely unapologetic about her actions, which were much worse than Catelyn's.
Towards the end of her life, Catelyn became melancholic at the loss of so many family members - her father, her husband, two of her sons and the captivity of her daughters. She laments that she could have done things differently, and that she was incapable of saving her youngest sons. Later, she tearfully remembers her father when she was a child. During the Red Wedding, Catelyn shows a ferocious will to ensure that her remaining family survived - she held Joyeuse, a wife of Walder Frey, at knife-point and threatened to kill her if Robb was not allowed to leave with his life. When Walder rebuked her, and Roose Bolton murdered Robb right in front of her, Catelyn made good of her promise and killed Joyeuse, screaming with despair and becoming catatonic as a result of the grief that overwhelmed her, moments before her death.
Even the people who did not get on well with her admitted that they admired her - namely both Tyrion and Jaime Lannister. Tyrion and Jaime are two people Catelyn showed open contempt for, but Tyrion and Jaime nonetheless admit they admired her. Tyrion recognized that she showed strength when it came to protecting her children, which Jaime seconded later during a confrontation with Catelyn's brother Edmure.
*Bran's vision
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Catelyn is proud, strong, kind and generous. A letter received by Catelyn from her sister Lysa about Jon Arryn sets in motion the events of the novels. She loves her five children very much and dotes on them, but is also aware they need to be strong if they are to inherit leadership positions in the North. Catelyn has a severe disregard for Jon Snow - so much worse than expressed in the show - as he is Eddard's illegitimate son with an unidentified woman. She resents Jon because Eddard brought him home as an infant to Winterfell to raise alongside her trueborn children. However, she does not interfere with the close relationships between Jon and his half-siblings but makes her disdain for him known. Before he leaves to join the Night's Watch, she voices her wish that it was him who fell from the tower, not Bran.
Catelyn deeply loves her family, but this sometimes results in her acting rashly, selfishly and irresponsibly, with a total disregard to the applications, especially to the lives of innocent people who may get harmed as a result of her deeds. Catelyn seizes Tyrion, since she believes he is guilty of attempting to murder her son Bran. However, she fails to verify Littlefinger's false accusation (that the dagger belonged to Tyrion), and refuses to listen to Tyrion's logical statements. She is so outraged and determined to exact justice for the attempt on her son's life that she pays little heed that the Lannisters would retaliate and innocent people (among them Masha Heddle, who was indeed killed at Tywin's order, and was not the only one) may be harmed. The book makes a point that Catelyn did not care even slightly about six of her escorts, who were killed by the tribe hills on the way to the Eyrie - "sometimes she felt as though her heart had turned to stone". That sentence is perhaps a foreshadowing of her resurrection as Lady Stoneheart.
In contrast to the show, Ned does not want to become Robert's Hand, stating that his place is in Winterfell; Catelyn presses him to accept the office, claiming that a refusal will put them in great danger, and that he has to become the King's Hand in order to find out the truth of Jon Arryn's death. Ned is persuaded by her arguments, though reluctantly. Following Ned's death, Catelyn realizes he was right after all; she deeply regrets persuading him to act against his will, thinking that his death was her fault.
During the war, Catelyn stays most of the time in Riverrun (except her visit at Renly's camp and the two rides to the Twins), not in Robb's camp. Since Robb is not a POV character, the information about his battles is revealed mostly from the reports Catelyn receives after they take place.
Catelyn releases Jaime not to prevent Rickard Karstark from killing him; the news about the alleged deaths of Bran and Rickon, combined with Cleos Frey's admission he has not seen Arya, drive her to attempt saving Sansa. Once again, Catelyn acts very rashly and selfishly: she does not give any thought about the damage her deed will cause Robb's authority, nor about the folly in the idea of sending Jaime via a land strewn with enemies and outlaws, escorted by only two people (one of whom - Cleos Frey - is an untrustworthy coward). She also does not take into consideration that even if Jaime is brought to King's Landing - the Lannisters will not simply let Sansa go away. The foolhardy plan goes totally wrong: Cleos Frey is killed by outlaws; Jaime and Brienne are captured by the Brave Companions; Brienne is nearly gang-raped and killed, and saved thanks to Jaime; by the time they finally arrive at King's Landing, Sansa had already escaped (even if she had still been there, it is highly doubtful Tywin would have released her); finally, Jaime's escape costs Robb the Karstark troops.
When Catelyn is at Renly's camp, she sees her reflection in an armor suit, gazing back at her as if from the bottom of a deep green pond. The image makes Catelyn think "The face of a drowned woman. Can you drown in grief?". This is perhaps a foreshadowing of her death.
Catelyn's death is different than in the show: during the massacre, she finds a knife and grabs Aegon "Jinglebell" Frey, Lord Frey's lackwit grandson (in the show he was replaced with Lord Frey's eighth wife), in attempt to trade his life for her son. Lord Frey says indifferently that Jinglebell was never useful. After Robb is killed, Catelyn slits Jinglebell's throat. Driven mad by grief, Catelyn scratches her face, her tears mingled with the blood, till Raymund Frey cuts her throat. Her corpse has been dumped naked into the Green Fork, in a savage mockery of House Tully's funeral customs, after she has been dead for a day and a night.
According to the TV series, official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Catelyn" is pronounced "CAT-lin" ("cat" like the animal), not "Kate-lin" or "Cat-ellen". Indeed, in the TV series, she is sometimes referred to as simply "Cat" by people who know her well, like Ned Stark or Petyr Baelish.
Perhaps the most significant difference from the books to the TV series is Catelyn's fate after the Red Wedding. In A Storm of Swords, three days after her death - Catelyn's body is found by Nymeria who drags it out of the river, which is then found by the Brotherhood Without Banners. Harwin begs Thoros to revive her, but Thoros refuses, since it had been too long. Despite Thoros's objection, Beric Dondarrion then gives his own life to resurrect Catelyn; that proves to be a serious mistake.
Taking on the moniker Lady Stoneheart (also known as the Silent Sister, Mother Merciless, and the Hangwoman), Catelyn becomes the new leader of the Brotherhood Without Banners. Under her leadership, the Brotherhood falls low, to the point it is no longer different than any outlaw gang; its members even violate the sacred guest right. Rather than protect commoners, as they did when Beric was still alive, they hunt down and murder numerous members of House Frey out of revenge for the Red Wedding. As a result, many of the original members (among them Edric Dayne and Anguy) abandon the Brotherhood. Thoros stays with the Brotherhood, though he strongly disapproves of what it has become.
Lady Stoneheart is totally monstrous, physically and characteristically: her flesh has turned soft and the color of curdled milk due to being submerged in river water for days; half of her hair is gone and the rest is white and brittle as a crone's; her wounds have not healed, and her face is covered in scratch marks and black blood where she raked herself; her throat still slit open; the most terrible thing about her is her eyes, expressing deep hatred. In order to speak, she must cover the wound on her throat, and even then she is difficult to understand. She wears a crown of a bronze circlet ringed by iron swords - the crown which her son used to wear.
Now void of all humanity, Lady Stoneheart becomes cold and ruthless - caring only about exacting revenge on those responsible for murdering her son, as well as innocent people whose only "crime" is having some connection (even very remote) to the Freys or the Lannisters. Most of all she wishes to have Jaime killed, based on Roose Bolton's statement while killing her son "Jaime Lannister sends his regards" - although Jaime had absolutely nothing to do with the Red Wedding. She has no intentions of performing altruistic missions, like going north and fighting the army of the dead.
In A Feast for Crows, Brienne and Jaime hear various rumors (partly or wholly true) about Lady Stoneheart: some say she belongs to Beric's band, perhaps his lover; that she was hanged by the Freys, but Beric kissed her and brought her back to life, and now both cannot die; some say she is a leader of a different band. According to the rumors, she is cloaked and hooded, her face is torn and scarred, and her eyes are terrible to look.
Randyll Tarly, who has been recently chasing and hanging dozens of outlaws, is determined to capture Lady Stoneheart, but so far she and the other local band leaders (among them Rorge, impersonating as the Hound) still elude him.
Following a bloody encounter with Rorge's gang near the Inn at the Crossroads, Brienne, Pod and their companion Ser Hyle Hunt are taken captive by the Brotherhood; they unjustly accuse Brienne and Pod of serving the Lannisters, since Brienne carries a Lannister sword and Pod was Tyrion's squire. Brienne is shocked and sorrowful to see the monstrous creature that Catelyn turned to be; for a moment, she thinks she is caught in a nightmare. One of the attending people, Jeyne Heddle, comments that death and guest right don't mean much anymore since the Red Wedding.
Brienne insists that she and Pod are looking for Sansa, and that Jaime armed her with the sword for that purpose, and that he is not what he used to be; her words fall on deaf ears. Lady Stoneheart demands that she kills Jaime, otherwise she and her companions will be hanged. Brienne refuses to make a choice, but watching Pod dying, she gives up to the unjust demand.
The topic of Lady Stoneheart's absence in the show has become almost infamous in the frequency in which it is brought up by fans - as well as the show creators' continued insistence that Stoneheart was omitted from the TV series. With Beric's return in the sixth season of Game of Thrones - as well as the deaths of Walder Frey and his sons at the hands of Arya - it has become clear that Stoneheart was indeed written out of the TV series - and it can be assumed that her storyline in the forthcoming novels was condensed with Arya's.
Catelyn's death and her subsequent reanimation have been prophesied by the old woods witch, known as the Ghost of High Heart: "I dreamt of a roaring river and a woman that was a fish. Dead she drifted, with red tears on her cheeks, but when her eyes did open, oh, I woke from terror".
Lord Tyrion Lannister is the youngest child of Lord Tywin Lannister and younger brother of Cersei and Jaime Lannister. A dwarf, he uses his wit and intellect to overcome the prejudice he faces. He is the current Lord of Casterly Rock and Hand of the King to Brandon Stark.
Tyrion's mother, Joanna Lannister, died giving birth to him, a tragedy which Tywin and Cersei unfairly blame Tyrion for.
Tyrion is mocked for being a dwarf, called derisive names such as "Imp" and "Halfman", which he tries to embrace to keep his self esteem up. Had an infant with dwarfism like Tyrion been born a commoner, he'd have been left in the woods to die; luckily, his birthright as a Lannister afforded him significant wealth and power.
When Tyrion was sixteen, he interrupted the attempted rape of a wheelwright's daughter. While Jaime dispatched the attackers, Tyrion helped the girl, named Tysha, recover. They later became lovers and got married in secret. When Lord Tywin learned what had happened, he payed Tysha, a prostitute, to service every one of his guards while Tyrion watched. Jaime confessed he had orchestrated the attack to help Tyrion lose his virginity.
While two siblings occupied positions of power, Tyrion was put in charge of the sewers at Casterly Rock when he turned of age.
Tyrion spent a lot of time at court in King's Landing to avoid his father. He got on well with Jaime, his niece Myrcella and nephew Tommen, but had a colder relationship with Cersei and the psychopathic Joffrey. Tyrion is committed to the good of both his House, and since Cersei married King Robert Baratheon, his family's hold on the throne.
Tyrion visits a whorehouse upon his arrival in Winterfell.
Tyrion accompanies King Robert Baratheon to Winterfell, where he makes the acquaintance of a prostitute named Ros, and gives her a Lannister lion necklace. While lingering outside the feast hall, Tyrion meets Jon Snow, Eddard Stark's bastard son and realizes he is something of a kindred spirit. "All dwarfs are bastards in their father's eyes," he explains. Despite time spent in brothels and taverns, Tyrion is well-read, cunning, and has a fondness for social misfits.
Tyrion in Winterfell with the Hound.
Tyrion prepares to leave Winterfell.
When Prince Joffrey refuses to pay his respects to Lord and Lady Stark after Bran's fall, Tyrion slaps him until he acquiesces. He then breakfasts with his family, where he says he wants to visit the Wall and piss off it. He takes interest in Bran's fall, noting carefully his siblings' glum reactions to the news that Bran is likely to live.
On the road to Castle Black, Tyrion explains to Jon that he likes to read as it keeps his wits sharp. Upon reaching the Wall, he is temporarily rendered speechless by the size and scale of the structure. During his stay, Tyrion observes Jon Snow's superior attitude toward his fellow recruits and recommends he help the others train in order to earn their friendship. Maester Aemon and Lord Commander Jeor Mormont ask Tyrion to use his influence at court to recruit more men for the Night's Watch. While Tyrion is sympathetic, he doesn't believe in danger beyond the Wall.
Tyrion speaks with Bran.
Pausing at Winterfell on the trip home, Tyrion gives Bran the blueprint for a custom saddle. At the Inn at the Crossroads, Tyrion is ambushed by Catelyn Stark and arrested for Bran's attempted murder.
Tyrion defends his innocence to Catelyn en route to the Eyrie.
Catelyn takes Tyrion, who protests his innocence, to the Eyrie. A sellsword from the inn, Bronn, accompanies them, noting Tyrion's wealth and a promise he will handsomely reward any man who helps him. They are attacked by the hill tribes and Tyrion barely manages to defend himself.
Tyrion warns Catelyn that her sister, Lysa, has become irrational with grief and will try to kill him. She is skeptical, but Tyrion is proven correct: Lysa accuses him conspiring in her Jon Arryn's death. Tyrion is thrown into one of the Eyrie's "sky-cells", dungeons which open onto a ravine on one side.
Tyrion in the sky cells of the Eyrie.
Tyrion bargains with his gaoler, Mord, to get an audience with Lady Arryn and he "confesses" to being a whoremonger and dwarf, before demanding a trial by combat. Bronn agrees to stand as his champion and kills Ser Vardis Egen, freeing Tyrion. Bronn accompanies him on the journey south.
Tyrion bargains with the hill tribes.
Tyrion establishes some ground rules with Bronn, saying he will pay more money than anyone else who attempts to bribe him to betray Tyrion. They are then surrounded by men of the hill tribes, led by Shagga. Tyrion uses his quick wit and words to win the allegiance of the tribes, offering to better equip them for battle and help them conquer the Vale of Arryn in return for their help. Shagga agrees, though he notes that if Tyrion tries to renege on his promise he will cut off his manhood and feed it to the goats.
Tywin Lannister's forces have been attacking Catelyn's home in the Riverlands ever since she arrested Tyrion. It's not that he cares so much about Tyrion, he explains to Jaime, but because even though Tyrion is the least of them he is still a Lannister, and if they allow one of their own to be taken so easily, they risk losing the respect of the other Houses. The hill tribesmen deliver Tyrion to his father's army, where he learns that Robb Stark is leading an army to war. Tyrion warns his father that Robb should not be underestimated. Tywin agrees to honor Tyrion's alliance with the hill tribes. When Shagga says they will only fight if Tyrion is with them on the field, Tywin also agrees, to Tyrion's dismay.
Tyrion drinks with Bronn before battle.
Tyrion is commanded by his father to lead the hill tribes into battle from the front. Feeling that his father means to kill him, Tyrion retires to his tent, where he finds that Bronn has found a prostitute for him, a girl named Shae. Tyrion attempts to learn more about Shae via a drinking game, but finds his questions deflected. Instead he tells her about his own past with Tysha, a wheelwright's daughter. They married and spent several happy weeks together until Tywin learned of the matter. Tywin had Jaime tell Tyrion the truth, that Tysha was a prostitute that Jaime had paid to make his brother happy for a while. Tywin then gave her a piece of silver for every one of his guards she had sex with while Tyrion was forced to watch. Since then Tyrion has never attempted to take a wife or lover, only whores he can pay and send on their way.
Tyrion leads the hill tribes to battle.
The next morning, Tyrion leads the tribes into battle at the Green Fork, but is knocked out by one of his own warriors' mis-swung hammers just as the engagement begins. He is found by Bronn, after the battle, who brings Tyrion before his father on a medical stretcher. He learns from his father that Robb deceived them, delaying their army with a feinting force so the main Stark host can fall on and defeat Jaime's army in battle, with the Northern army now regrouping for an attack on King's Landing.
Tyrion discusses the future with his father.
With Jaime captured, Robb's forces now allied to those of the Riverlands and both Stannis and Renly Baratheon claiming the Iron Throne, the odds have swung against the Lannisters. Tywin risks being caught between three armies, so he retreats to Harrenhal. Tyrion makes shrewd observations about the ominous turn the current situation has taken now that Joffrey has killed Eddard. Grudgingly impressed, Tywin orders Tyrion to report to King's Landing and act as the Hand of the King to try to keep Joffrey in line and execute any of the Small Council members if they try anything treasonous. Tywin forbids him to take "that whore" with him, but Tyrion defies him and asks Shae to come to King's Landing with him.
Tyrion returns to King's Landing.
Tyrion arrives in King's Landing, accompanied by Bronn, Lannister soldiers, and members of the hill tribes. He assumes the role of acting Hand of the King to Joffrey Baratheon, who isn't happy to see him, unlike Myrcella and Tommen. After taking his seat at the Small Council, he clashes with his sister, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister, over her failure to stop the execution of his predecessor as hand, Eddard Stark. He also criticizes her for allowing Arya Stark to escape, as the girl and her father could have been useful to bargain for the return of Jaime. 
Tyrion hides Shae in the Tower of the Hand.
He installs Shae in the Tower of the Hand, in defiance of his father's orders. She is initially thrilled at being brought to the capital, and says that big cities make her "want to fuck." He explains how populous the liars of King's Landing are, trying to convince Shae that he is somewhat truthful in comparison. He also laments Eddard Stark and his honor, but also remarks on how that was his downfall, emphasizing how the court is built on his lies. Tyrion states that he will make changes during his tenure as Hand of the King to Shae, before the two share a tender kiss.
Tyrion warns Varys not to underestimate him after the Spider discovers Shae's presence and lets Tyrion know that he is aware of her. During a Small Council session, Tyrion finds himself the only sympathetic ear to a request by the Night's Watch for aid from the throne. He also criticizes Cersei's lack of talent for diplomacy when she rejects peace terms from Robb Stark brought by their cousin Ser Alton Lannister. Tyrion invites Lord Janos Slynt for dinner and gets him to confess his part in the recent massacre of King Robert's bastards as well as his part in the betrayal of Eddard. After openly noting Slynt's lack of honor, Tyrion has Lord Janos exiled to the Wall as punishment, and installs Bronn as commander of the City Watch in his place.
Tyrion arranges for Shae to serve as a handmaiden to Sansa Stark when she demands more freedom. He tests the loyalty of the remaining Small Council members by feeding them varying plans for marriage alliances involving Princess Myrcella Baratheon. He is confronted by Cersei about sending Myrcella to Dorne in a betrothal to the youngest son of House Martell. Tyrion has Pycelle thrown into the black cells for revealing the information given only to him. Varys congratulates him for the ploy to lure out the Queen's informant. Tyrion is also confronted by an angry Petyr Baelish for having been unwittingly involved in the ruse; nevertheless, Tyrion recruits Littlefinger in a plan to convince Catelyn Stark to release Jaime, offering him Harrenhal and the title of Lord Paramount of the Trident.
Tyrion is shocked and furious to find Joffrey orchestrating the public beating of Sansa for her brother's victory in the Battle of Oxcross. He orders a halt to the proceedings, and warns Joffrey to consider his actions more carefully, lest he wants to suffer the same fate as the Mad King. He then escorts Sansa out of the throne room. Bronn suggests that Joffrey would benefit from sexual release. Tyrion arranges for two whores for his nephew but Joffrey forces one to beat the other as a message to Tyrion. Lancel Lannister visits Tyrion to demand the release of Pycelle on Cersei's behalf. Tyrion notes the lateness of the hour and traps Lancel into admitting his sexual relationship with Cersei. Tyrion uses the information to blackmail Lancel into acting as his informant.
Tyrion discovers Cersei's storage of wildfire.
Tyrion reports news of King Renly Baratheon's death to Cersei. She is pleased, but Tyrion predicts Stannis Baratheon's imminent attack having assumed control of Renly's men. He tries to discuss plans for their defense, but she insists on keeping them secret. He learns that she is reliant of the Alchemists' Guild from Lancel. He visits Wisdom Hallyne and learns that the guild have stockpiled thousands of jars of Wildfire to use as catapult ammunition. Bronn sees this strategy as potentially disastrous because of the volatile nature of wildfire. Tyrion orders Hallyne to answer to him instead of Cersei. He passes a street protest that blames him for the ills of the city, as the people believe him to be manipulating Joffrey.
Tyrion and the court assemble at the shore of Blackwater Bay for the departure of Princess Myrcella. Cersei remains angry about Tyrion's arrangements for her daughter, threatening to one day deprive him of someone he loves. As they return to the Red Keep through the city, they are confronted by angry crowds of starving Smallfolk. Sensing the imminent danger, Tyrion orders a guard to escort Prince Tommen back to the Keep by another route. Shortly after, Joffrey is hit by thrown excrement and triggers a riot by demanding that his guards kill everyone in the crowd. Tyrion is horrified when the High Septon is torn to pieces by the famished crowd. He marshals his guards to lead him to safety. Once the royal family is safely separated from the mob, Tyrion confronts Joffrey for triggering the riot and the war that preceded it, calling him a vicious idiot. He slaps Joffrey when his nephew refuses to listen to the criticism. Tyrion orders Meryn Trant to retrieve the missing Sansa, knowing that Jaime's life is also on the line, but Meryn will not follow his orders. He is relieved when Sandor Clegane brings her to safety.
Cersei confesses that she believes Joffrey's viciousness might be the price she pays for her sin of incest with Jaime. Tyrion does not know how to comfort his sister in this rare moment of vulnerability, but reminds her that both Myrcella and Tommen are kind and gentle. Word that Stannis' fleet is days away reinforces the need to control Joffrey.
Tyrion studies texts in preparation for Stannis's attack.
Tyrion turns to books for insight into siege defense tactics, notably Ch'Vyalthan's An History of the Great Sieges of Westeros, but Bronn warns that the grim realities of a siege cannot be understood from reading, stating that the idea of a siege is to cause starvation and disorder to those who are fortified, and that many undeserving criminals revel in this. Tyrion affirms the loyalty of Varys and is enigmatic about his plans for the battle, but believes Stannis will attack at the Mud Gate.
Varys warns Tyrion of Daenerys Targaryen.
On the ramparts, Joffrey wishes to attack Robb Stark's forces now that Winterfell has fallen to the Ironborn, but Tyrion advises against it, due to Stannis' impending attack on King's Landing. After Joffrey leaves, Varys commends Tyrion on his ability to play the game of thrones, then warns him that Daenerys Targaryen has survived and has three dragons. Once again, Tyrion prefers to focus on the problem at hand.
Tyrion informs Cersei of Stannis's movements.
After learning that Joffrey is keen to fight in defense of the city, Cersei is furious and suspects Tyrion of trying to kill her son. She mistakenly identifies Ros as his lover because of the Lannister pendant Tyrion gave her and seizes the opportunity to deliver on the threat she made when Myrcella left. Cersei has the prostitute kidnapped as insurance against Tyrion placing Joffrey in harm's way. Tyrion later visits Cersei in her chambers, where he tells of Stannis being spotted near Tarth, with his navy surpassing that of the Royal Fleet. She reveals her capture of Ros to Tyrion, who fears that she means Shae, referring to her only a "your little whore."
Tyrion confesses his love for Shae.
Tyrion is relieved that Shae is unhurt, but vows to free Ros and when the prostitute is taken away, he promises Cersei that he will exact revenge on her, before she banishes him for her presence. He rushes back to his lover's side and confesses the depth of his feeling for her, both of them mentioning that they would violently defend each other, while warning that they must be doubly careful.
Podrick armors Tyrion for battle.
He spends the night before the expected siege in bed with Shae, telling her she can still leave the city. Tyrion has Varys provide him with a map of the tunnel network beneath the city. Varys tells Tyrion that he is all that stands between them and defeat. He later meets Shae, now Sansa's maid, and pretends not to know her in order to keep their relationship from Cersei. Tyrion then smiles at Sansa's false loyalty to Joffrey, noting how she has already began to understand the falsehood of court life.
Tyrion defends King's Landing with wildfire.
Tyrion leads the defense of the city during the Battle of the Blackwater, commanding the defenders at the Mud Gate. He destroys a large portion of the attacking fleet by luring them into a trap; a ship filled with Wildfire and allowed to leak its cargo into the bay. He signals Bronn to detonate the Wildfire using a flaming arrow. Stannis continues with the assault, landing his troops further out in the bay to avoid the devastation of the explosion.
Tyrion rallies the Lannister troops.
Tyrion's initial attempts to repel the attackers are unsuccessful and Cersei has Joffrey withdrawn to the Red Keep, with the King leaving Ser Mandon Moore and Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard to fight in his name. Tyrion is faced with increasing dissent from his troops but rallies them with a rousing speech. He personally leads a sortie through the tunnels under the city, destroying Stannis' siege equipment.
Tyrion is wounded by Ser Mandon.
He is trapped outside the walls by a group of reinforcements and then betrayed by Ser Mandon. Mandon slashes Tyrion across the face but Podrick kills him with a spear before he can finish Tyrion off. As Tyrion collapses into unconsciousness a host of Lannister-Tyrell reinforcements led by a man wearing Renly's armor arrives to claim the victory. His father is also present among the victors, who is proclaimed Savior of the City, whilst Tyrion's effects have been passed over.
Tyrion awakens to find Pycelle looming over him. The reinstated Grand Maester gloatingly informs Tyrion that he has been relieved as Acting Hand of the King and moved to new chambers. Tyrion rejects pain relief, fearing that his enemy will poison him. He calls for Podrick to summon his allies, Varys and Bronn. Varys visits Tyrion and regretfully tells him that although his leadership was key to saving the city he will not be recognized by King Joffrey. He also reports that Bronn has been relieved of his command and his tribesmen have taken their plunder and gone home.
Tyrion shows Shae his scarred face.
Varys offers a small consolation; he has brought Shae to see Tyrion. Varys leaves them alone and Shae removes Tyrion's bandages to reveal a scar marring his whole face. Tyrion is self-pitying; she angrily asserts her love for him and begs him to flee to Pentos with her. He says that standing up to the bad people in his life, out-talking and out-thinking them, is something that he is good at and enjoys. He chooses to stay in King's Landing and she agrees to remain with him.
Some weeks after the Battle of Blackwater, Cersei pays Tyrion a visit accompanied by two of her son's Kingsguard. She only gains entrance to Tyrion's chambers after agreeing to leave her guards outside. Once inside Cersei demands to know how he will "slander" her to their father now that he is here. Tyrion asks when he has ever slandered her before, and she reminds him of a time at Casterly Rock that he got her in serious trouble with their father: when she was nine years old, Cersei discovered that a servant girl (also nine years old) had stolen a necklace, so she had her guards beat the girl, who ended up losing an eye. Tyrion told their father what Cersei had done and he was angered, but Cersei notes that the servant girl never stole a necklace again. Tyrion quips that it isn't "slander" if it's true, and he only told Tywin what she really did. The queen admits that Tyrion is a clever man but not as clever as he might believe. Tyrion merely retorts that this still makes him a great deal more clever that her. Cersei then leaves abruptly and just in time to prevent Meryn Trant and Bronn from exchanging blows.
Tyrion discusses Bronn's payment.
Tyrion is surprised to understand that Bronn (who had defended him against Cersei's entourage) has been knighted and styles himself as "Ser Bronn of the Blackwater." While possessing no lands, wealth, or titles, this drastically elevates his social standing - and in his mind, his pay. He tells Tyrion that he still thinks of him a friend, but he is still a sellsword, and as a knight Tyrion should pay him double what he used to, reminding him of his promise made after his trial.
Tyrion meets with his father.
After speaking with his sister, Tyrion requests his father give him Casterly Rock, as Jaime gave up all rights of inheritance when he joined the Kingsguard. This leaves Tyrion as the next in lawful line of succession as Lord of Casterly Rock. Tywin hatefully spites his son for "killing" his mother in childbirth, and saying that although he will reward him in due time, he will never make Tyrion heir to Casterly Rock, considering him an abomination and a curse who would only humiliate the family name and turn Casterly Rock into a brothel. As Tyrion leaves, Tywin warns him that if he catches another whore in his bed he will hang her.
Shae sneaks into Tyrion's new chambers. He warns her that his father threatened to kill her if he found her with him again, and that his father follows through on such threats. Undeterred, Shae starts undressing Tyrion, and asks him for a favor; to protect Sansa from Baelish. Tyrion says that he no longer has enough power or influence to attempt to do that, though Shae accuses him of being attracted to Sansa, which he cheerfully denies. It also comes out that Tyrion had sex with Ros back in the North, though Tyrion points out it was before he met Shae. They playfully bicker about it as they start having sex.
Tyrion defies his father during a Small Council meeting.
Tywin Lannister calls the first meeting of the Small Council since he arrived in the city, arriving early and has all of the council members called in at once. All of the seats are on one side of the table, as a non-verbal test to see how each of them reacts around him. Tyrion is the only one who even mildly stands up to Tywin's posturing, by not even trying to sit closest to Tywin: instead he takes a new chair and makes a point of noisily dragging it across the ground until it is positioned at the exact opposite end of the table from his father. It is announced that Littlefinger will marry Lady Lysa Arryn. Tyrion points out that if Baelish departs for the Vale that leaves a vacancy on the Small Council, and Tywin reveals that he has appointed Tyrion as the new Master of Coin to replace him. While this may seem like giving Tyrion a position of relative power again, Tyrion quickly points out that he has no prior experience in finance. With backhanded compliments, Cersei makes it clear that this promotion is really intended to give him an opportunity to make mistakes he will be blamed for.
Petyr transfers the Master of Coin's documents to Tyrion.
After the meeting, Tyrion, Podrick and Bronn drop by Littlefinger's office in his brothel, where he keeps his ledgers. Littlefinger says it was the safest place to keep such records, but Tyrion notes that his brothel hasn't been the safest place for bastards. Baelish says he hopes Tyrion does well in the position, as he owes him for securing the release of Ros (after Cersei arrested her, mistaking her for Shae) but Tyrion says it was just a misunderstanding. Tyrion and Bronn then lead Pod into another room of the brothel, where Tyrion says that he wants to reward him for saving his life during the Battle of the Blackwater: he has paid for Podrick (who has never had sex with a woman) to enjoy the services of not one, but three prostitutes.
Later, Tyrion is reading through the financial records, and explains to Bronn that not all is as Baelish would like the court to think. Bronn asks if he thinks Littlefinger has been stealing to obtain the crown's money, but Tyrion says the problem is more that he's been borrowing all of it. Littlefinger always acted like he was a financial genius who could raise money seemingly out of nowhere, but in reality the Iron Throne is heavily in debt, and Littlefinger procured enough money to balance the books every year by borrowing massive sums of money from foreign banks. In particular, much of their debt is owed to the Iron Bank of Braavos, the largest bank in the Free Cities. Tyrion warns Bronn that when debtors to the Iron Bank cannot repay their loans, the Iron Bank will first refuse to give out new loans, and ultimately support rebellions against them.
Tyrion and Ser Bronn learn from Podrick.
Tyrion fears that if they can't repay the debt, the Iron Bank will eventually cut them off and start supporting Robb Stark or Stannis Baratheon. Podrick then returns, with the money Tyrion gave him to pay the prostitutes. Tyrion is concerned that he lost heart and fled, but Pod innocently says he did "all sorts of things" with the prostitutes - they simply refused his offer of payment. Impressed that the women would provide their services for free, Tyrion and Bronn ask Pod to explain in detail what transpired, so they can take "copious notes."
Varys tells Tyrion of his past.
Escorted by Varys to a dark room, Tyrion is finally told the story of how the eunuch was traveling through the Free Cities with a party of actors. It is revealed that he was castrated by a male sorcerer who spoke to the air and 'something' answered him. Varys then pries open the box in the room and reveals the Sorcerer who had done this terrible deed.
Lady Olenna Tyrell explains to Tyrion that House Tyrell will support the cost of the wedding between Joffrey and Margaery. Following this, Lord Tywin summons both Tyrion and Cersei to his chambers to inform them of his plans to wed them off, Cersei to Loras Tyrell and Tyrion to Sansa Stark, who Tywin explains will be heir to Winterfell after he defeats Robb Stark, thus giving the Lannisters a future foothold in the North.
Tyrion & Cersei ponder their forced marriages.
Cersei and Tyrion are evidently reluctant to consider these marriages, Tyrion in particular emphasizing how it will be worse for Loras and Sansa than for himself and his sister, especially since Sansa hoped to marry Loras herself. Partway through the discussion, Tyrion brings up the question of who employed Ser Mandon Moore to kill Tyrion. Cersei, of course, denies her involvement, but Tyrion is still suspicious, as well as suggesting that Joffrey may be the culprit,as Tyrion is the only one who dares to speak against the King.
Tyrion speaks with Sansa before their wedding at the Great Sept of Baelor; though he knows the girl is not thrilled at the prospect of marrying him. Tyrion promises Sansa that he will not mistreat her, and Sansa agrees there are worse Lannisters she could be wed to.
Sansa and Tyrion marry in a humiliating ceremony.
The ceremony is a grim affair; Joffrey smugly escorts Sansa to the altar in place of her father and petulantly removes the stool upon which Tyrion was to stand on to cloak Sansa in Lannister colors as part of the ceremony, eliciting snickers from the congregation (though the scowl of Lord Tywin quickly silences them). Tyrion in the face of humiliation asks Sansa to kneel and he places the cloak around her shoulders. The new High Septon begins the ceremony. Later as man and wife they have their reception dinner, which also proves a grim and miserable affair.
A drunken Tyrion threatens Joffrey.
At the night of their wedding, Tyrion gets drunk and threatens Joffrey with castration after the latter commands him to carry out the bedding ceremony with Sansa. Tywin calms Joffrey and Tyrion takes Sansa to his bedchamber, where he tells her that his lord father has commanded him to consummate the marriage. As Sansa begins to disrobe, Tyrion refuses, insisting that he won't bed her until she wants him to, then he passes out drunk.
Tyrion starts to bond with Sansa, despite their circumstances.
After his marriage, Tyrion starts bonding with Sansa and lightly enhances his relationship with her, making crude jokes in an attempt to cheer each other. The two discuss how they would punish social enemies, rather than the harsh reality of political ones. Both Shae and Tyrion silently remark on Sansa's innocence when it comes to vulgar language, until he is called away when Tywin calls a meeting of the Small Council where Joffrey happily informs him that Robb and Catelyn Stark have both been murdered at the Red Wedding by Walder Frey. He orders Grand Maester Pycelle to thank Frey and command him to send Robb Stark's head, which he will serve to Sansa at his wedding, fulfilling an earlier promise to her. However, Tyrion threatens him yet again before Pycelle can send any messages to the Twins. After the end of the meeting, Tywin and Tyrion discuss the details of what consequences the Red Wedding might have on the war. Tyrion knows that Walder Frey will receive all the credit for the massacre, but also the blame, and correctly deduces that Tywin is the true mastermind behind the Wedding, much to his displeasure. Tywin tells him that Roose Bolton is Warden of the North until he impregnates Sansa Stark, but Tyrion assures him that he can't and won't do it even forcefully. Tywin lectures Tyrion on protecting family legacy and that the house that puts family first will always prevail over the family the fulfills the wishes of its sons and daughters first.
Tyrion accuses Tywin and protests that he has never done something for the benefit of the family that wasn't in his interest. Tywin tells him that when he was born, he wanted to leave him in the sea and let the waves take him away, and that he instead he let him live and raised him because he is a Lannister. Afterwards, he returns to Sansa, who is in tears having heard of her brother and mother's tragedy. Later, Cersei visits Tyrion and informs him that she won't be marrying Ser Loras. She also advises him to give Sansa children, to which Tyrion responds by asking her how happy is she with her children. Cersei admits that if it wasn't for her children, she would've killed herself, even for Joffrey. She ponders how happy he used to be in his infant years and how much he brought such joy in her life at that time, and that neither Joffrey nor anyone else can take that away from her.
Tyrion awaits the arrival of Prince Doran Martell.
Tyrion is sent to welcome Prince Doran Martell to King's Landing. As he, Podrick, and Bronn are expecting the Dornishman, they spot Martell bannermen coming their way. Tyrion greets them, but they inform him that Prince Doran's declining health prevents him from leaving Sunspear, and therefore he has sent his brother Prince Oberyn Martell to attend King Joffrey's wedding in his stead. They also explain that Oberyn went ahead and entered the city before dawn. Tyrion quickly puts together that he may be at one of Littlefinger's brothels. When Tyrion arrives, he finds Prince Oberyn stabbing a man's hand for singing "The Rains of Castamere." He is introduced to Oberyn's paramour, Ellaria Sand, and asks the Dornishman to talk in private.
Oberyn warns Tyrion.
He asks him why he came to the capital and Oberyn tells him that he was invited to the royal wedding. Tyrion knows he's lying and asks for the honest truth. Oberyn remembers how Rhaegar Targaryen wed his sister Elia, and how his involvement with another woman started Robert's Rebellion. He tells Tyrion that the war ended with his father sacking the city while "The Mountain" (Ser Gregor Clegane) brutally murdered Elia's children, then raped and murdered her. He orders Tyrion to tell his father that he's here, and warns him that the Lannisters are not the only ones who pay their debts.
Tyrion attempts to comfort a bereaved Sansa.
Afterwards, he visits a deeply depressed Sansa and tries to comfort her by telling her that her brother and mother were good people. In tears, she tells him the grueling details of how they died. Tyrion advises her to stay strong, as that is what her mother would want. Sansa leaves to go to the godswood and she tells Tyrion that she doesn't pray anymore, and instead goes because nobody is talking to her there. Distraught, he returns to his bedchamber, where Shae is waiting for him. She tries to pleasure him but Tyrion refuses. Shae questions him if he's really in love with Sansa. Tyrion says that he doesn't and this time, Shae asks him if he wants her out of the city. After getting no answer, she storms out of his bedchamber, and it is revealed that one of Cersei's spies heard the whole conversation.
Tyrion presents Joffrey with a tedious tome.
In the days following, Tyrion, along with other noblemen and women present in King's Landing, attend the breakfast on the morning of Joffrey and Margaery Tyrell's wedding. He meets Varys before arriving, who informs him of Cersei's spy and Cersei's consequent knowledge of Shae's presence, and warns him that Tywin will know shortly. Varys also warns him that he will not protect Tyrion or Shae against the former's father and sister out of regard for his own safety. At the breakfast, Tyrion observes Cersei's indication of Shae to her father as "the whore I told you about." Tywin subsequently requests that she be brought to the Tower of the Hand before the wedding. Tyrion then presents the groom a gift of a tome detailing the reigns of Daeron, the Young Dragon; Baelor the Blessed; Aegon the Unworthy and Daeron the Good. This is met with surprising approval and gratitude from the King until he is presented with a Valyrian steel sword by his grandfather and proceeds to demonstrate the blade's sharpness by destroying the book with it.
Tyrion banishes Shae from to Pentos.
After the breakfast, Tyrion meets with Shae in his quarters and shows uncharacteristic and confusing coldness towards her despite her gestures of affection. He terminates their "friendship" and informs her that she is to leave and go to live in Pentos, telling her that she must do so in order for him to uphold her marital vows to Sansa. She deduces that he is afraid of his sister and father and expresses her desire to fight them alongside him. As she draws closer, Tyrion yells at her, calling her a whore, and states her unfitness to bear his children, in contrast to Sansa's. Bronn arrives to escort the sobbing Shae to the docks, resulting in her slapping him and storming off.
Joffrey insults Tyrion at the former's wedding feast.
At the wedding feast, Joffrey organizes some entertainment: five dwarfs mockingly re-enacting the War of the Five Kings. Tyrion, disgusted, instructs Podrick to pay each dwarf 20 gold dragons after the show. At the conclusion of the show, Joffrey suggests Tyrion fight the former's dwarf counterpart. Tyrion politely declines and sarcastically voices awe at Joffrey's skill and bravery at the Battle of the Blackwater and his desire to see them again. Insulted at the disrespectful undertone, Joffrey pours his wine over Tyrion's head in an immature show of superiority. He then instructs Tyrion to act as his cupbearer, before kicking the goblet under a table, forcing Tyrion to handle it several times. He finally orders him to kneel and Tyrion, obviously possessing no intention to do so, is saved by the arrival of the pigeon pie. He attempts to leave with Sansa, but is spotted by Joffrey, who commands him to remain and continue his duties as his cupbearer. Tyrion hands the king his goblet, who begins to choke after drinking from it. In his final moments, Joffrey points to Tyrion, apparently accusing him, as the latter inspects the goblet for poison, and he is seized and arrested by members of the Kingsguard on Cersei's orders.
Podrick visits Tyrion.
After Tyrion has been incarcerated, he gets a visit from Podrick who smuggles in some food and writing materials to help him get through prison life. He informs Tyrion of Sansa's disappearance. Tyrion is sure that Sansa had nothing to do with the murder.  
Just as Pod leaves he turns around and tells Tyrion about a man whom he didn't know offering him a knighthood if he testified against him. Tyrion knew that it wasn't a suggestion, and soon enough, they'll threaten him with something worse. Tyrion advises Pod to leave King's Landing, sending him off with a final farewell.
At Bronn's intervention, Jaime comes to see Tyrion. Jaime tries to comfort Tyrion and says that he suffered much worse with the North. Jaime asks Tyrion if he did it and Tyrion says he would never kill his brother's son, no matter how despicable he turned out to be. Tyrion asks Jaime to set him free, but Jaime says he can't because of treason and says the trial will get to the truth. Tyrion knows that the trial doesn't matter: Cersei won't rest until Tyrion is dead. Jaime then goes on to him believing that Sansa had something to do with the murder, but Tyrion is again adamant that Sansa is innocent.
Tyrion is cross-examined by Prince Oberyn Martell, Lord Tywin Lannister, and Lord Mace Tyrell.
Tyrion's trial begins with the newly-crowned King Tommen recusing himself. Instead, a group of three judges are appointed to oversee the trial: Tywin Lannister as presiding judge, Lord Mace Tyrell of the Reach, and Prince Oberyn. Cersei has several witnesses testify against Tyrion, such as Meryn Trant, Grand Maester Pycelle, and Varys. They all give strong (yet circumstantial) evidence of Tyrion's guilt. He seems particularly hurt by Varys's betrayal, so much that he asks the spymaster whether he remembered what he had told him after the Battle of the Blackwater (that Tyrion had saved the city and that Varys knew it even if history wouldn't). Varys sadly tells Tyrion that he never forgets anything.
Jaime tells Tyrion of Tywin's compromise.
After an hour's recess, Jaime comes to Tyrion and tells him that, when the verdict of guilty is pronounced, he must ask for mercy. Secretly, Jaime had made a deal with Tywin: in exchange for sparing Tyrion, Jaime will renounce his vows and return to Casterly Rock as Tywin's heir, while Tyrion will be sent to live out his days on the Wall with the Night's Watch. Tyrion points out that their father wanted this outcome all along. However, Cersei calls in her last witness: Shae. A hurt Tyrion can do little as Shae reveals his sexual pleasures in front of the court and his supposed desire to bed Sansa Stark, which she agreed to let him do if he killed the King for her. Tyrion's anger at the betrayal leads him to finally lash out. With tears in his eyes, he angrily states that he had saved King's Landing from Stannis, not Tywin or the Tyrells, and now wishes he had just let Stannis kill them all, especially after how easily they turned against him for allegedly murdering a King who, in all irony, they hated and despised.
Tyrion demands a trial by combat.
Tywin attempts to silence Tyrion but his son turns on Cersei, declaring that he was innocent of killing Joffrey but wished he had, adding with gleeful venom that he derived more relief from watching her "vicious bastard" of a son die than he could have gotten from a thousand lying whores. He then turns on Tywin and calls the trial a farce and that it is really a repetition of the trial he had been on since he was born: for the crime of being a dwarf. Not wanting to submit to the "justice" that was being served on him, Tyrion demands a trial by combat. The court exploded in shock and multitudes of gasps, and amid it all Tywin and Tyrion Lannister lock eyes, with a tense glare of rage on Tywin's face, and a subtle grin of triumph on Tyrion's.
Jaime declines Tyrion's plea.
In his cell, Tyrion and Jaime discuss Tyrion's fate and the irony of Lord Tywin striking down both his heirs if Jaime were to die being Tyrion's champion, Jaime angry with Tyrion for not seizing Tywin's offer of the Night's Watch, to which Tyrion replies that Shae's lies ended that possibility. Jaime declines to be Tyrion's champion as he cannot fight well enough with his left hand.
Bronn refuses to be Tyrion's champion in trial by combat.
Tyrion asks Jaime to bring him Bronn. Bronn arrives in the clothes of a lord, with news that he is to marry Lollys Stokeworth, a noble's daughter, in a match arranged by Cersei. He will not fight the Mountain (whom Cersei has chosen for her champion), believing Clegane to be too dangerous for him to face, and bids farewell to Tyrion. They share a final handshake and part on good terms.
Later, Tyrion is approached by Oberyn Martell, who tells Tyrion of their first encounter: As children, Oberyn and his sister Elia were told stories of the "monster" that had been born to Tywin Lannister. During a childhood visit to Casterly Rock, Cersei showed Tyrion, with great ceremony, to Oberyn and Elia. Oberyn tells Tyrion that, to his disappointment, he saw no monster, just a baby. Cersei told Oberyn and his sister that Tyrion killed her mother, and then cruelly assaulted Tyrion until Jaime stopped her. Oberyn tells Tyrion that he seeks justice for the death of his sister, and Tyrion replies that he will "find none here." Oberyn counters that he is in the perfect place; all those he means to bring to justice for his sister's murder are close at hand. Intending to start his revenge with Gregor Clegane, Oberyn offers his service as Tyrion's champion in the coming trial by combat.
Jaime visits Tyrion before his trial by combat.
On the day of the trial by combat, Jaime visits Tyrion in his cell. They discuss their dead cousin Orson Lannister and his habit of smashing beetles with rocks for no reason. Tyrion says he used to watch Orson for long periods of time and think about the reason behind his actions, but he hasn't come to any conclusion why all those countless beetles had to be killed. When Jaime says he doesn't know either, bells start tolling and he wishes Tyrion good luck.
Bound in shackles, Tyrion is taken to watch the duel of Oberyn and the Mountain. Before the fight starts, he advises Oberyn against drinking wine, but he doesn't pay a lot of attention to him. As the Red Viper starts winning, he exchanges a few hopeful looks with his brother and feels happy when Oberyn pins Ser Gregor to the ground with his spear, but his hopes are quickly shattered in the moment when the Mountain knocks Oberyn down and crushes his head, confessing his own war crimes and sealing Tyrion's fate. As Tyrion is struck with horror, Tywin states that the gods have made their will known and Tyrion is sentenced to death.
Tyrion is surprised when Jaime comes to his cell in the night and leads him through a secret passageway within the castle. He tells Tyrion that he will meet with Varys, who has arranged for him to escape to the Free Cities. The brothers warmly embrace, believing it will be the last time they see each other. Jaime leaves him with a familial kiss on the cheek. Instead of proceeding directly to his liaison, Tyrion first enters the chambers of their father.
Tyrion kills Shae after finding her in Tywin's bed.
He finds a woman in his father's bed, and is shocked to discover that it is Shae, moaning Tywin's name and calling for her "lion," the name she had previously called Tyrion. When Shae spots him, she grabs a paring knife and tries to stab him. She fails to do so but slaps him and scratches at his face. They struggle, and Tyrion eventually strangles her with Tywin's gold chain she is wearing. The act is done both in self-defense and in jealous rage, and Tyrion is immediately distraught once he fully realizes what he has done.
Tyrion kills his father.
After apologizing to Shae's corpse, he takes Joffrey's crossbow and confronts his father while in his privy chamber. He forces his father to admit to his many wrongdoings against him. Tywin tries to placate Tyrion, saying he admires Tyrion's will to survive but when he refers to Shae as a "whore" once too often after having been warned not to do so on pain of death, Tyrion kills him with two bolts to the chest. He proceeds to the chamber of Lord Varys, who stows him away within a crate upon a ship, and decides to accompany him at the last moment.
Tyrion arrives in Pentos.
With the aid of Varys, Tyrion is brought to the home of Illyrio Mopatis in Pentos. Varys attempts to persuade Tyrion to assist in his goal to restore House Targaryen to the Iron Throne, but Tyrion simply wishes to drink himself to death after all that he has been through, renouncing his lordship and caring nothing for the stability of Westeros, a country he is done with after nothing but pain from its politics.
Varys and Tyrion in Pentos.
Later, Tyrion questions Varys on his motives for setting him free. Varys reveals his brother Jaime had asked him to and that he did for the benefit of the Seven Kingdoms. Varys then states that his goal was to bring peace and prosperity upon the kingdoms where those without power would never be prey to those who do; Tyrion merely states in a jaded tone that the former will always become prey to the latter, which is how the powerful become and stay that way in the first place. The two discuss that the Seven Kingdoms needs a ruler stronger than Tommen, but gentler than Stannis. Tyrion wishes Varys luck on trying to find the right man, but Varys makes Tyrion one final offer. Varys tells him that he can simply drink himself to death here in Pentos, or ride with him to Meereen to meet Daenerys Targaryen. After a moment, Tyrion agrees.
Tyrion and Varys discuss on their way to Meereen.
Tyrion and Varys depart Pentos in a large carriage. Tyrion remains despondent, and as he promised, he is continuing to drink himself into a stupor. Varys explains that they are traveling to Meereen by way of Volantis. Varys points out that Tyrion was an effective ruler when he was acting Hand of the King, and that each of them were outsiders due to their deformities (a eunuch and a dwarf). They enjoyed accumulating power, he says, but they also wall themselves off from other people, like hiding inside of a large carriage as they are now - but deep down, they were never satisfied being separate from society. Tyrion remains depressed and continues to insist that he's tired of being confined in a box of some sort. Varys, however, again warns him that he must remain hidden and it is unsafe to be seen publicly: Cersei has promised a lordship to any man who brings her his head. Tyrion scoffs and rhetorically asks if Cersei is going to kill every dwarf in the world in the hope of eventually catching him.
Tyrion and Varys walk along the Long Bridge.
After days of confinement in the carriage, an impatient Tyrion eventually opts to get through Volantis on foot. The pair move through the Long Bridge's markets, where Varys explains the meaning of the various tattoos Volantene slaves must sport. Varys nearly loses Tyrion, but finds him observing the sermon of a Red Priestess. Tyrion says he is curious, since Thoros of Myr was the only Red Priest in King's Landing. The Red Priestess evangelizes in High Valyrian, telling the tale of how she was once a slave herself. She preaches of a prophesied savior, a Dragon Queen. Tyrion's interest in the scene wanes when the Priestess stares directly into his eyes.
Tyrion is captured by Jorah on a brothel in Volantis.
Tyrion next leads Varys to a brothel. Catching sight of a prostitute dressed as Daenerys, Varys tells Tyrion that a woman who inspires both sermons and whores is probably worth meeting. Tyrion woos a dark-haired prostitute, but when she finally agrees to service him, he finds that he can't bring himself to patronize her. He then goes to urinate off the side of the bridge, with Varys losing sight of him. As Tyrion finishes, he is abducted by Jorah Mormont, who declares that he is taking him to "the queen."
Tyrion is held hostage by Jorah.
Now at the mercy of his captor, Tyrion is thrown into a stolen boat by Jorah and they set sail for Meereen. En route, Tyrion pesters Jorah with muffled whining until he relents and removes Tyrion's gag. Tyrion notices that they are traveling east and not west towards Cersei in King's Landing. Jorah reveals that he is taking Tyrion to the queen he serves, Daenerys Targaryen. Tyrion is pleasantly surprised and tries to convince Jorah that they are on the same side since he was traveling to meet Daenerys anyway. He accurately deduces who Jorah is by his appearance and equipment, and correctly assumes that Jorah must have been banished by Daenerys because she discovered that he was spying on her for Varys. Tyrion mockingly asks Jorah if he really believes that he will earn a pardon for simply delivering him to Daenerys, believing the opposite outcome just as likely. Fed up with his captive, Jorah strikes Tyrion across the face to keep him quiet.
Tyrion travels through Old Valyria.
As Jorah and Tyrion continue their journey to Meereen, and following Jorah's violent reaction to a previous conversation, Tyrion tries to civilize their relationship and asks where they are. As Jorah stands up to look at the foggy ruins on the horizon, Tyrion deduces that they are going to pass through the remains of Old Valyria, a shorter route to Meereen and one which pirates will avoid because of Valyria's reputation. Tyrion is apprehensive, but still excited to see the ruins of what was once the greatest civilization in the world. As they catch glimpses of domes, towers and aqueducts, Tyrion recites a poem about the Doom of Valyria, with Jorah joining in at the end. Suddenly, through the fog, they see Drogon fly into view. Although he had been hearing about the dragons for some time, Tyrion is still awed to see one in person - though the beast does not notice them.
Tyrion is attacked by Stone Men en route to Meereen.
They are suddenly attacked by Stone Men, men whose greyscale infection has reached its pinnacle and transformed them into feral monsters. During the fight, Tyrion falls overboard and dragged under by a stone man, but he is rescued by Jorah and they make it to a beach, where Tyrion regains consciousness. Jorah finally frees Tyrion from his binds and notices that none of the stone men managed to touch him. Tyrion thanks Jorah for saving his life, and they decide to seek out a fishing village to acquire another boat, or walk the rest of the way to Meereen. Jorah tells Tyrion to get some rest as he goes for firewood, but unbeknownst to Tyrion, Jorah has been infected with greyscale.
Tyrion tells Jorah about his father's death.
Tyrion and Jorah continue their quest to Meereen on foot. Tyrion is annoyed that they didn't find any villages to steal a boat or supplies from as Jorah had hoped, so they're slowly walking and only have berries and roots to eat. The topic of just why Tyrion was even in Volantis comes up, and Tyrion is surprised that Jorah did not ask earlier: he explains that he actually fled from Westeros because he killed his own father. He says he did it because his father tried to have him executed for a crime he didn't commit, and then he found his father screwing the woman he loved. Tyrion then says that despite how miserable Jorah is now, at least he can say that he had a good father. Jorah asks how he could have known his father Jeor Mormont, but Tyrion explains he visited the Wall once and met him: he was a great leader who seemed to genuinely care about all of his men, a rare thing in the world, but now as the eulogy for Night's Watch members goes, "the world will not see his like again." Jorah is shocked to realize he means that his father is dead. Tyrion becomes apologetic and says he thought that Jorah knew already. Jorah asks how he died: Tyrion says he only knows the report he heard, which said that his father led an expedition beyond the Wall, but there was a mutiny, and Jeor was murdered by his own men. Jorah processes this in silent grief, then changes the subject by saying that they have to keep moving.
Jorah and Tyrion are captured by slavers.
Tyrion openly questions Jorah's motives, and when Jorah claims that he came to believe in Daenerys when he saw her emerge from the fire unharmed with the dragon hatchlings, Tyrion is convinced, but still expresses doubt as to whether or not Daenerys will be a good ruler, given that her family was known for succumbing to madness due to their compound inbreeding, particularly her father, whom many still call the Mad King. However, they are spotted and captured by slavers bound for Volantis. The lead slaver, Malko, deems Tyrion as useless and orders his throat cut and his penis removed to be sold to a cock merchant (as he believes dwarf cocks bring good luck). Tyrion, however, convinces them to do it when they have reached the cock merchant, buying himself some time, and when Malko mentions that Daenerys has re-opened the fighting pits in Meereen, Tyrion successfully convinces Malko to take them to Meereen in order to put Jorah, who is a renowned Westerosi fighter, in the fighting pits and make them rich.
Tyrion convinces Yezzan to buy him.
On the outskirts of Meereen, after Jorah is sold to Yezzan zo Qaggaz, Tyrion attempts to convince Yezzan to buy him as well, and viciously beats his captor with his own chain to prove his worth. Yezzan relents and buys Tyrion, but mostly for his comedic value. They are taken to Daznak's pit, a small fighting pit, which will celebrate the opening of the games. When they hear that Daenerys is present, Jorah immediately enters the fight in the arena, while Tyrion struggles to cut his chain until a guard comes and does it for him. Tyrion enters the arena just as Jorah is being taken away (since Daenerys still hasn't forgiven him), and reveals himself as Jorah's "gift." He introduces himself as Tyrion Lannister, and meets Daenerys face-to-face at last.
Tyrion explains his family tensions to Daenerys.
Both Tyrion and Jorah are brought before Daenerys inside the Great Pyramid. Daenerys initially advocates executing Tyrion as revenge against the Lannisters for betraying her family, but Tyrion points out that he killed his mother in childbirth and shot his father in the heart before fleeing. She asks him advice on what to do with Jorah. Tyrion persuades her to spare him, but suggests banishing him again, since he did effectively betray her trust.
Tyrion and Daenerys discussing matters of family and politics.
Later, while having wine, Tyrion and Daenerys agree that they both had cruel fathers, and Tyrion promises to explain why he killed Tywin someday, should she decide to spare him. Tyrion admits that though he believes Daenerys is no better than her father, he admits that he traveled to Meereen because Varys convinced him that she may very well be the best monarch for the Seven Kingdoms. He believes that Varys was correct in his assessment, and notes that Varys is the only person he can trust, aside from his brother Jaime. The mention of Jaime, who killed her father, prompts Daenerys to suggest executing Tyrion, but Tyrion reacts with indifference, claiming that he was ready to drink himself to death in Pentos and still welcomes death if Daenerys prefers it, given the rate of how his own life had become as of late. Daenerys ultimately decides not to kill or banish Tyrion, but to take him as an advisor on how to reclaim the Iron Throne. Tyrion suggests that Daenerys stay in Meereen, as she may do more good in Essos than in Westeros. Daenerys assures Tyrion that she will stay in Meereen to ensure there is no more slavery but states that Essos is not her home. Tyrion counters that no one will support her in Westeros, but Daenerys somewhat idealistically declares that the common people will support her.  
Tyrion generously assumes that this will happen (which it generally doesn't), but then he reminds Daenerys that Meereen has been in a state of chaos without the combined support of the Great Masters and the smallfolk, and extends this to Westeros and its Great Houses. He notes that Houses Targaryen and Stark are effectively dead or scattered due to the combined actions of their "two terrible fathers." Neither House Lannister nor House Baratheon of Dragonstone will ever support her claim in light of their histories with the Targaryens. Tyrion says that leaves House Tyrell, who originally sided with the Crown in Robert's Rebellion and might be willing to help her due to Cersei's recent schemes against them, but that it still isn't enough. Daenerys stubbornly likens the Great Houses, including her own House Targaryen, to spokes on a wheel: one on top of the others, and on and on, crushing the commoners beneath them in their struggle for supremacy. Tyrion sarcastically warns that others have dreamt of stopping the wheel, but Daenerys clarifies that she isn't planning to stop the wheel, she intends to break it.
Daenerys, Hizdahr and Tyrion discuss the brutality of tradition.
Tyrion attends the opening of the Great Games in Daznak's Pit along with Daenerys, Hizdahr zo Loraq, Daario Naharis, and Missandei. He playfully banters with Hizdahr and Daario about which fighters will win owing to what advantages, such as strength or speed, and after Hizdahr lectures Daenerys about the requisitions of holding onto power, Tyrion coldly quips that Tywin would have liked him. In the second round of the games, Jorah appears as one of the combatants and is almost killed. Tyrion urges Daenerys to stop the games before Jorah is killed, but he is saved by another fighter.
Tyrion is left struck with awe as Daenerys escapes the pit on her dragon.
Suddenly, a surprise attack by the Sons of the Harpy devastates the fighting pit. Tyrion saves Missandei by killing one of the Sons and he runs with Daenerys and the others into the center of the fighting pit, where they are surrounded. He later watches in obvious shock when Drogon enters the pit and sets several Sons ablaze. When Daenerys flies off on Drogon's back, Tyrion is left struck with awe as he watches her fly through the sky on dragon back.
Jorah, Daario, and Tyrion lament the whereabouts of Daenerys.
In the aftermath, Tyrion sits in the throne room with Daario and Jorah. Grey Worm recovers and Missandei introduces him to Tyrion. Tyrion concludes that since Drogon flew North, he and Daario must head in that direction if they are to find Daenerys, getting into an argument with Jorah over his status as a Lannister and Jorah having betrayed and been exiled twice by Daenerys. Daario breaks up the argument, convincing Tyrion to trust Jorah and allow him to come, since he did save Daenerys in the fighting pit, but at the same time questions Tyrion's skills in tracking and combat and deeming him unfit to join in such a dangerous mission. Instead, Daario advises Tyrion to stay in Meereen and rule on Daenerys's behalf, knowing of his political skills from his time as Hand of the King, with Grey Worm enforcing Tyrion's rule with the Unsullied and Missandei as interpreter, wishing him luck on keeping the city together.
Tyrion and Varys watch over Meereen
Later on, Tyrion, from atop the pyramid, watches Daario and Jorah depart Meereen to find Daenerys. He is joined by Varys, who playfully teases him for "abandoning" him and admits he found him through his little birds. Varys congratulates Tyrion for winning Daenerys's favor without him. Varys alludes to the political instability in Meereen, and the opportunities it presents for Tyrion. Through their bantering, they vow to help each other hold Meereen together. Tyrion then wholeheartedly admits that he missed Varys.
Tyrion and Varys stroll the streets of Meereen.
In an effort to find the Sons of the Harpy, Tyrion and Varys explore the streets of Meereen disguised as merchants, believing they can do more at street level than inside the Great Pyramid. Upon meeting a woman and her baby, Tyrion offers some money to feed her child. Due to his bad Valyrian, however, she refuses, believing Tyrion intends to eat her baby until Varys corrects her. While pondering their predicament and what Daenerys' absence means to the people of Meereen, they witness Zanrush preaching to some of the former slaves to fight for their own freedom instead of relying on Daenerys. After surmising that the Harpies have a leader, Tyrion and Varys encounter several citizens running away from something. Investigating the disturbance, they are shocked to find that the Sons of the Harpy have burned every ship in the harbor.
Tyrion decides to visit Viserion and Rhaegal.
Later, in the Great Pyramid, Tyrion learns that the Unsullied have yet to find the person responsible for burning the Meereenese fleet, Astapor and Yunkai have fallen back into the slave trade and Daenerys' remaining dragons haven't been eating since their mother left. Tyrion guesses that they are morose because they are in captivity. When Missandei asks how he knows this, he replies, "That's what I do. I drink and I know things." Tyrion decides to meet the dragons and free them, knowing they will be better off this way.
Accompanied by Varys, Tyrion ventures alone into the catacombs and encounters Viserion and Rhaegal for the first time. Despite their initial hostility towards him, Tyrion remains calm, assuring them he is a friend of Daenerys and only wants to help. He manages to earn their trust and unshackle them, all the while telling them the story of how he wanted a dragon for his nameday when asked by his uncle what he'd like for a gift, only to be disappointed by uproarious laughter from his family and the truth from his father, that they'd been extinct for a century. After the dragons depart, Tyrion quickly exits the pit with Varys, asking the eunuch to punch him 'in the face' the next time he has a crazy idea.
Tyrion tries to initiate small talk with Missandei and Grey Worm.
Later, while waiting for Varys as he turns one of the Sons of the Harpy's allies to their cause, Tyrion tries to pass the time with Missandei and Grey Worm by engaging in small talk and playing one of his drinking games, without success. Once Varys arrives, Tyrion learns that the Masters of Yunkai, Astapor and Volantis are collectively funding the Sons of the Harpy. In order to intimidate the Masters into backing down, Tyrion asks Varys to arrange a meeting with them.
Tyrion invites Daenerys's enemies to Meereen.
Tyrion, Grey Worm, Missandei and Varys prepare to meet with representatives of the Good Masters of Astapor, the Wise Masters of Yunkai, and the slave-trading city of Volantis, who have all arrived by sea. As the diplomatic mission enters the harbor, Grey Worm advocates using military force, though Tyrion reminds him this has already been tried, and this time they must "make peace with our enemies." When Tyrion explains that he is able to empathize with slaves because he spent one day as a slave, Missandei counters that he has not experienced slavery enough.
Tyrion discusses negotiations with the slave masters.
In the meeting chamber, the emissaries are revealed to be Tyrion's former slave master Yezzan zo Qaggaz, the Yunkai'i Wise Master Razdal mo Eraz, and the Volantene representative Belicho Paenymion. Yezzan remarks at how Tyrion, a dwarf slave, has quickly climbed to the top of the Great Pyramid. The slave-trading cities offer to give Daenerys and her allies a large amount of money and ships if they leave Slaver's Bay. When Missandei defends Dany's actions in liberating slaves, Razdal contends that slavery has existed in the region for centuries. After hearing their offer and reminding them there are other ways to make money, Tyrion proposes a counter-offer. While Meereen would remain a free city, he offers to give the other cities of Slaver's Bay a seven-year time limit to phase out slavery and compensate all slave owners. However, they must end all support for the Sons of the Harpy, regardless of their denial of it. He then cautions them that they will not get a better offer. At the meeting's conclusion, Tyrion gives them a trio of prostitutes and time to consider his offer.
Tyrion and his entourage are later confronted by a group of former slaves in the Meereen throne room. A freedman demands to know when Daenerys will return, while another is appalled at the idea of Tyrion negotiating with slave traders. Tyrion insists he is doing his best to rule the city in her absence while they wait. Instead, the freedmen refuse to listen to the foreign dwarf and look to Grey Worm and Missandei for reassurance. Despite their misgivings, they both publicly back Tyrion in front of the freedmen.
In private, Tyrion assures Missandei and Grey Worm that he is serving Daenerys' interest by taking advantage of the Masters' own arrogance, but that he cannot end slavery overnight. Grey Worm, however, warns Tyrion that the slavers cannot be reasoned with and will most likely take advantage of him instead, since they already do it for a living.
Tyrion acquires religious support.
Nevertheless, the situation in Meereen begins to stabilize, with almost no incidents involving the Freedmen or Sons of the Harpy, though Tyrion reminds them they need to convince the Meereenese that everything has been done with Daenerys' blessing, as the Masters could use Tyrion and Varys' foreign status against them to fully reclaim Slaver's Bay. To accomplish this, Tyrion invites Kinvara, High Priestess of the Red Temple of Volantis, to negotiate spreading the word of Daenerys's achievements. To Tyrion's surprise, Kinvara appears to fully agree with supporting Tyrion's goals, believing that Daenerys is The Prince That Was Promised. Varys is more skeptical, however, being suspicious of any practitioners of magic, and points out that Melisandre had already promised the same to Stannis Baratheon, who was ultimately defeated and killed. Kinvara counters that the Lord of Light's human followers occasionally make mistakes, then shuts him down with knowledge of his castration. Kinvara then assures Tyrion that she will send the preachers and priests best suited to the task at hand.
Tyrion bids Varys farewell.
When the Red Priests arrive at Meereen to preach about Daenerys, Tyrion and Varys are debating if their presence can maintain order throughout the city while walking through the markets. Afterwards, Varys tells Tyrion that he is leaving on a secret expedition because Daenerys will need more allies, before Tyrion proclaims to Varys that he is the most famous dwarf in the world.
In the Great Pyramid, Tyrion wishes to celebrate with Missandei and Grey Worm for the resurgence of Meereen and to honor their queen. Their celebration is cut short when a large fleet of slaver ships lay siege to the city. As the slavers continue to bombard Meereen, Tyrion allows Grey Worm to assume command. Grey Worm proposes that the Unsullied must not go to the beach, preferring to wait until the slavers enter the Great Pyramid. At that moment, they hear movement on the roof. When they go to investigate, they discover that Daenerys has returned on her dragon Drogon.
The following day, Tyrion explains the events in Meereen during her absence to Daenerys. Despite the fact that they are under siege by the Masters' fleet, he believes that his success in bringing about a resurgence of a slaveless Meereen is the reason for their attack, because the Masters could not let such an example succeed for fear that their slaves could rise up. Daenerys declares that she will destroy the Masters' armies, kill them all, and destroy their cities. Tyrion disapproves and explains the similarities between this plan and the one her father had for King's Landing when the Lannisters were at his door. Instead, he proposes a different solution.
Tyrion joins Daenerys in negotiations.
Accompanied by Grey Worm and Missandei, Tyrion and Daenerys meet with the slave masters Razdal, Yezzan, and Belicho to parley. Believing victory is near, the slave masters demand that Daenerys and Tyrion surrender Missandei and the Unsullied to their masters, and her three dragons to be slaughtered before leaving Slaver's Bay. Dany rejects their terms and orders Drogon, Viserion, and Rhaegal to burn the slavers' fleet. As Dany leads the counterattack on the back of Drogon, Tyrion chastises the slave masters for breaking his pact and demands that they surrender one of their own to be executed as punishment. When Razdal and Belicho try to offer up Yezzan, Tyrion orders Grey Worm to kill the two masters. However, he spares Yezzan so Yezzan can spread the word of Daenerys's power. Meanwhile, Dany's Dothraki horde wipes out the resurgent Sons of the Harpy.
After the battle, Tyrion is present at the Great Pyramid while Dany holds an audience with Yara and Theon Greyjoy, who have just arrived in Meereen with most of the Iron Fleet. Knowing Theon, Tyrion chides him for mocking his height back at Winterfell and for the alleged murders of Bran and Rickon Stark. A penitent Theon reiterates that he has paid for his crimes though Tyrion is incredulous given that Theon is standing there. Yara offers to provide Daenerys with a hundred ships if she helps them to defeat her uncle Euron Greyjoy and recognizes the independence of the Iron Islands. Tyrion protests that if the Iron Islands gain independence, then the rest of the Kingdoms will likely make that demand as well; Dany states that they are welcome to try, and agrees to Yara's terms, provided that the Ironborn end all reaving and piracy of the mainland. When Yara begrudgingly accepts, Tyrion indicates his approval of the alliance, as Daenerys has negotiated a strong position for herself.
Dany and Tyrion discuss her lack of sentimentality.
In preparation for the invasion of Westeros and entering its politics, Tyrion advises Daenerys to end her relationship with Daario and leave him Meereen with the rest of the Second Sons, which she does. Tyrion attempts to console her on her loss of the relationship but admits he is not good at consoling. She agrees but she says she is more bothered that it was so easy for her to let Daario go than by the actual loss of the relationship. Tyrion tells her that Daario is not the only man she ever loved and definitely will not be the last. He also implies that she already has the needed mind set for the terrifying game she is about to play with the lords of Westeros.
Daenerys makes Tyrion her Hand.
Tyrion goes on to admit that for years he has believed in nothing but, in the months in her service, he has come to believe in Daenerys and that he is ready to live again. Touched, Daenerys presents him with a replica of the Hand's brooch and formally names him Hand of the Queen. Moved to near-tears, Tyrion kneels before her. Some time later, Tyrion stands with Daenerys on the flagship of her massive armada, looking ahead to returning to Westeros.
News of Tyrion's appointment as Hand to Daenerys has also reached King's Landing, news which Cersei breaks to Jaime when they make a list of their enemies.
Tyrion arrives on Dragonstone.
Tyrion arrives on Dragonstone, accompanied by Daenerys, Missandei, Varys, and Grey Worm. He follows Daenerys from the shore of the island to the Painted Table of Westeros, pulling down the standard of Stannis Baratheon and running her hands along the simplistically ornate throne before asking if they can begin planning her conquest.
As they begin planning for the conquest of Westeros, Tyrion cautions Daenerys not to launch a direct assault on the city with her dragons or she will merely become Queen of the ashes, to which Daenerys concurs. Tyrion witnesses as Daenerys calls into question Varys's allegiance, as his loyalty has shifted from king to king since the days when he served her father. The Hand tries to defend his friend, insisting that Varys had been the one to convince him over to their cause and that he had served her well since then, assisting his rule of Meereen and securing the alliance of Dorne and House Tyrell. However, Daenerys demands that Varys explain himself without support from Tyrion, who watches as the Spider swears that he will be loyal to her as long as she keeps the people's best interests at heart. Daenerys requests that Varys not conspire against her if she should fail and that he try his hardest to dissuade her.
Grey Worm announces the arrival of Melisandre, who brings them news of events in the North and Jon Snow's coronation as King, to Tyrion's surprise. Although somewhat skeptical of Melisandre's prophecies, Tyrion admits that he liked and trusted Jon's character when they traveled to the Wall together, and encourages Daenerys to make an alliance with him.
Tyrion clashes with Ellaria during Daenerys's council meeting.
Tyrion later joins Daenerys for a council of war with Missandei, Varys, Grey Worm, Olenna Tyrell, the Greyjoy siblings and Ellaria Sand. Tyrion initially clashes with Ellaria, as he knows she poisoned his niece Myrcella and she blames him indirectly for Oberyn's death. After Daenerys stops their argument, Tyrion helps her explain their plan to invade Westeros: as Cersei is trying to rally the Lords to defend King's Landing against a foreign army, Daenerys' Unsullied and Dothraki will not attack the city or they will "prove her point."
Tyrion explains his tactics.
Instead, the Greyjoy fleet will ferry the Dornish army north to lay siege to King's Landing alongside the Tyrell forces, trapping Cersei and most of her army in the capitol and starving them out. Meanwhile, in response to Olenna's question of the use of Daenerys's foreign soldiers, Tyrion plans to have the Unsullied sail around Westeros and capture Casterly Rock, the true seat of House Lannister's power. Ellaria, Yara Greyjoy and Olenna agree to follow this plan. All does not go as planned, however; on their way to Dorne, Yara's fleet is decimated by her uncle Euron's Iron Fleet, and both she and Ellaria are captured.
Tyrion meets with Jon Snow, now King in the North.
Tyrion is later seen meeting with Jon Snow, Davos Seaworth, and their men, as they arrive in a small boat onto the shores of Dragonstone. Tyrion teases Jon, calling him "the bastard of Winterfell", to which Jon retorts, calling Tyrion "the dwarf of Casterly Rock." They greet each other warmly and seem to be happy to see each other again, exchanging friendly barbs back and forth. Jon and his party are then forced to surrender their weapons, and they reluctantly do so. Then, as the party is escorted towards the castle, a group of Daenerys' soldiers whisk away their boat. Jon and Davos exchange looks of concern at this.
Tyrion escorts the Northern party to Daenerys.
As they make their way up the castle steps, Jon and Tyrion have a conversation about how they got to their respective positions, and how Jon's followers must think he's crazy for going to Dragonstone. Tyrion concurs, stating that if he were Jon's advisor, he would have advised against it, and cites that going south doesn't usually work out well for the Starks, to which Jon swiftly replies that he is not a Stark. They are then suddenly interrupted when Drogon swoops down towards them, and everyone is forced to duck for cover. Jon takes a moment to recover from the sudden shock, as the party continues on their journey towards the castle.
Daenerys's forward nature towards Jon worries Tyrion.
As they reach the throne room, Jon and Davos begin to speak with Daenerys as Tyrion watches by her side. The meeting is very tense as both sides refuse to submit to the other's demands. Tyrion plays an important moderating role by vouching for Jon's integrity and character, helping to soften Daenerys' attitude towards the insistent and unbowing King in the North. As the meeting is about to end on an unfavorable note, Tyrion urges Jon to simply bend the knee, reasoning that if Westeros is doomed by the threat of White Walkers, it makes no difference who he supports for the Iron Throne, especially if it will help him further his goals.
Tyrion speaks with Jon in private.
The meeting is interrupted by Varys who delivers news about their decimated Greyjoy fleet. Dany allows Jon and Davos to stay as "guests" until they can reach a proper agreement. Later, Tyrion meets with Jon on the grounds of Dragonstone. Jon is unhappy that he is a prisoner while the Night King and White Walkers still pose a threat. Tyrion encourages a despondent Jon not to give up and confides that he trusts the word of Jon and Jeor Mormont. Tyrion also vouches for his Queen and reassures Jon that she is not like her father. Tyrion also asks Jon if there is something he can do to help. Jon tells Tyrion about the vein of dragonglass beneath Dragonstone.
Tyrion manages to convince a skeptical Dany to allow Jon to mine the dragon glass on the pretext that it will win her an ally. Dany grants Jon permission to mine the dragon glass and outfits him with the manpower and equipment to do so. At the Chamber of the Painted Table, Tyrion along with Varys and Missandei discuss Euron Greyjoy's destruction of Yara's fleet. Tyrion and Missandei argue against Daenerys' plan to lead her dragons on a mission to hunt and destroy Euron's fleet, opining that she faces the prospect of death. Tyrion then elaborates his plan to seize Casterly Rock using an underground tunnel. Grey Worm uses this tunnel to capture Casterly Rock, only to discover that the Lannisters have withdrawn the bulk of their forces. Euron's Iron Fleet attacks the Targaryen ships, trapping the Unsullied at Casterly Rock.
Varys and Tyrion inform Daenerys that the Unsullied succeeded in capturing Casterly Rock, only to then reveal the disaster which just occurred at Highgarden as Tyrion's military strategy fell apart. Daenerys is furious and struggles to keep her temper, as now all three of her major allies in Westeros are gone and all she has gained is a castle with no supplies. She snaps at Tyrion, blaming his cautious strategy for losing them Dorne, the Iron Islands (Yara's forces), and now the Reach. She then accuses Tyrion of wanting to use a light hand against the Lannisters because they're his own people. Tyrion insists that they still have just enough ships left to at least shuttle the Dothraki from Dragonstone to the nearby mainland coast; even with the loss of all her other allies, her combined Unsullied/Dothraki forces are still the largest single army in Westeros. Daenerys fumes that her vast numbers are useless if she can't feed them all, as that was the Reach's true strategic value. Daenerys decides she has had enough of clever plans, declaring she will use the Dothraki and her dragons in a direct assault on the Red Keep to destroy her enemies. Tyrion urges her against this and when Daenerys asks Jon Snow for his input, he agrees with Tyrion to not attack King's Landing.
Tyrion watches as Jaime is almost killed.
Daenerys decides to attack the Lannister army en route to King's Landing following their victory at the Sack of Highgarden, which would destroy expenses retrieved in the process, atop Drogon. Tyrion is present when she attacks the Lannister forces outside King's Landing during the Battle of the Goldroad, watching miserable as the Dothraki massacre his kinsmen. When Drogon is injured and is forced to land, Tyrion watches in horror as Jaime foolishly charges at Daenerys on the battlefield and nearly incinerated by Drogon, before being saved by Bronn.
Tyrion stands by Daenerys's side during her judgment over the Lannister and Tarly ranks.
In the aftermath of the battle, Tyrion examines the damage on the battlefield and is present when Daenerys offers the surviving Lannister and Tarly men a choice: kneel or die. When Randyll Tarly refuses, Tyrion is quick to point out Randyll's newfound loyalty to Cersei, despite her role in annihilating House Tyrell. Randyll, in turn, denounces Tyrion and his loyalty to Daenerys, viewing her as a foreign invader. Despite Tyrion's insistence that Randyll and Dickon Tarly be imprisoned or sent to the Wall, Daenerys ignores his advice, explaining that they already made their choice, and orders Drogon to burn them alive.
Tyrion discusses the Battle of the Goldroad with Varys.
Back at Dragonstone, Tyrion discusses the aftermath of the battle with Varys. Though confident that Daenerys is not her father, Varys suggests that Tyrion find a way to make her listen to his advice. When Tyrion notices a message in his hand, Varys says that it is for Jon. At Daenerys' subsequent council meeting, Tyrion suggests capturing a Wight north of the Wall and bringing it back to Cersei as proof of their true common enemy. To convince Cersei to stand down, however, he must first appeal to Jaime. Davos agrees to smuggle Tyrion into King's Landing, but warns him of the consequences should the gold cloaks recognize him.
Tyrion reunites with Jaime.
Arriving at a secluded beach close to the Red Keep, Tyrion remarks that he murdered his own father the last time he was in King's Landing, with Davos remarking that Tyrion murdered his son the last time he visited the city. With time short, Tyrion makes his way inside. In the cellar beneath the Red Keep, Bronn arranges the meeting in the guise of a secret sparring session. Tyrion commends Jaime for outsmarting him at the siege of Casterly Rock, then does his best to explain his true motivations for murdering their father. When Jaime demands to know the real reason for the meeting, Tyrion explains that though Daenerys' victory is inevitable, she is genuinely nothing like her father, and has a more important request for Cersei.
Upon returning to the beach, Tyrion spots two Gold Cloaks near Davos's boat, and is spotted in return. Before the guards can arrest him, however, Davos's companion quickly dispatches them. After Tyrion is introduced to Gendry, the three make their escape. Tyrion later reunites with Jorah Mormont, his former traveling companion, and reminisces over their journey to Meereen, after which Tyrion gives Jorah the coin used to pay for him by Yezzan, hoping it will bring him luck for the wight hunt.
Tyrion says Jon is in love with Dany.
Later, he and Daenerys discuss heroism, Daenerys telling him he is no hero. Tyrion disagrees, and tries to explain how he received his scar by charging through the Mud Gate. Daenerys interrupts him, stating she doesn't want him to be a hero, as they do stupid things and end up dead. She names Drogo, Daario Naharis, Jorah Mormont and Jon Snow as examples, which Tyrion notes, stating all four of these men fell in love with her. Daenerys says Jon Snow doesn't love her, to which Tyrion responds sarcastically he only stares at her longingly because he is hopeful for a successful military alliance. When Daenerys calls Jon too little for her, Tyrion says that as far as heroes go, he is quite little. Daenerys then says she knows Tyrion is brave, as she wouldn't have chosen a coward as her hand.
Daenerys and Tyrion discuss the usage of fear.
Daenerys changes the subject, by saying if the wight hunt goes well, she'll finally get to meet Cersei, who wants to kill her. Tyrion notes that she would probably torture her first. He vows that if they go to the capital, they will go with the full capacity of their forces, and if someone even touches her, they'll burn the city to the ground. Daenerys says she's probably planning a trap, but Tyrion notes that Cersei is probably thinking the very same thing about Daenerys. When Daenerys asks him if they should lay a trap, Tyrion says it would be better to build a new world without mass murder. Daenerys remarks that no war was won without it, which Tyrion agrees but states that fear alone isn't the right way of ruling.
Tyrion tells Daenerys of his loyalty to her.
When Dany says Aegon Targaryen got quite a long way with fear, Tyrion reminds her of her promise of breaking the wheel, which Aegon built. Tyrion then speaks about his meeting with Jaime, where he promised to keep the Lannister's forces in check if Tyrion makes sure Daenerys doesn't lose her temper. Daenerys responds she does not lose her temper, to which Tyrion replies she lost it when she killed the Tarlys. She notes that Tyrion takes his family's side once again. Tyrion says he has to, as the only way to beat them is to think like them.
Tyrion discusses children with Daenerys.
He states that he wants to serve Daenerys for the long term, and wants to make sure that, after she is Queen and broken the wheel, it stays broken after her death. He states that Daenerys once said she believes she can't have children, but that there are other ways to name an heir. Daenerys says he's been thinking of her death for quite a while, and angrily reminds him they lost Dorne and Highgarden because of his lack of planning for the short term. Tyrion remains silent as Daenerys says they will discuss this further after she is Queen.
Tyrion tries to stop Daenerys from going beyond the Wall.
When Daenerys receives a letter from Gendry, asking for help with the wight hunt gone wrong, Tyrion tries to stop her from going to the Wall with her dragons, saying she is the most important person in the world, and she can't go to the most dangerous place in the world. He claims the group knew the risk when they left, and Daenerys shouldn't try to save them. When she steps on Drogon, she asks him what he would have her do. Tyrion says that doing nothing is the hardest thing to do, but if she dies, everything and everyone would be lost. Daenerys reminds him he told her to do nothing once, and having learned the hard way, she won't do this again. Tyrion looks at her as she and her dragons dive off the cliff, heading for the wall.
After Cersei agrees to a summit in the Dragonpit at King's Landing, Tyrion and Jon arrive in the capital with their various allies, while the Unsullied and the Dothraki amass outside the city walls to attack in case the truce gets broken.  At the harbor, Tyrion, Varys, Missandei, Jon and Davos nervously sail past Euron Greyjoy's fleet.
Tyrion leads the Targaryen entourage to the Dragonpit.
The group arrives and are escorted to the Dragonpit, the location of the summit. Tyrion reconnects with Bronn, who concedes it is good to see him again. The pair greet Podrick Payne, who had arrived earlier with Brienne of Tarth. Tyrion reminds Podrick that he is no longer a Westerosi noble after killing Tywin and Bronn that he will always pay more than what Cersei will in return for his service. Bronn rebuffs this, stating that if anything goes wrong during the parley, Cersei will have Bronn to thank for delivering her enemies to King's Landing.
Tyrion speaks to Cersei at the parley.
When Cersei arrives, she glares hatefully at Tyrion and quickly grows impatient that Daenerys has not come with him - only for Daenerys herself to make a dramatic arrival on dragonback moments later. Tyrion opens the negotiations, but is quickly interrupted by Euron Greyjoy, who mocks him and threatens Theon until Jaime and Cersei shut him down. Tyrion points out that if all they wanted to do was fight each other to the death, they would never have agreed to this meeting. Jon Snow then reveals the threat posed by the Night King and the Army of the Dead. Although Daenerys promises to uphold a truce with the Lannisters until the Night King has been dealt with, Cersei dismisses their claim concerning the Army of the Dead, saying they are simply attempting to strengthen their position while she is standing down. Tyrion replies that they have something to show her, and Sandor Clegane brings out the wight that was captured north of the Wall. Shaken by what she sees, Cersei at first seems willing to accept a truce, but only if Jon Snow agrees to have the North remain neutral and support neither Queen. To Tyrion's dismay, Jon replies that he cannot do so, as he has already declared for Daenerys. In response, Cersei leaves the summit. Furious, Tyrion rebukes Jon for not being able to make a small lie in order to secure them a political and military advantage. He declares that he will go and speak with Cersei alone - despite Daenerys's protests that she will have him murdered - or else they will be right back where they started.
Jaime warns Tyrion of Cersei.
Tyrion is escorted into the Tower of the Hand by Gregor Clegane; he meets Jaime outside, who claims he tried to reason with Cersei until she threw him out. Tyrion then meets Cersei inside the same office both he and their father once occupied, as Hand of the King. Cersei accuses him of having tried to bring down House Lannister from the very beginning. Although she finally acknowledges that Tyrion did not kill Joffrey, she reminds him that he did kill their father, and holds him responsible for the deaths of her other children, as she believed no one would have touched Tommen or Myrcella while Tywin was alive. Tyrion truthfully claims he was unaware of Jon's bending the knee to Daenerys and expresses sincere regret for the deaths of his nephew and niece, but Cersei does not care, claiming he destroyed their House's future regardless of his intentions. Angered, Tyrion tries to goad her into having him killed, if she blames him for everything that has befallen her. Cersei looks ready to give the order to Ser Gregor, but reluctantly relents. Tyrion wonders why she allowed him to arrange the peace negotiations in the first place if she didn't expect anything to happen; Cersei turns the question back at him, wondering why he supports Daenerys as loyally as he does. Cersei dismisses Tyrion's assertions that Daenerys is better at controlling her violent impulses than she is. She expresses the horror she felt when she saw the wight, and her desire to keep her loved ones safe from them at any cost. From this and her gestures, Tyrion correctly deduces that she is pregnant with another incestuous child by Jaime.
Tyrion then returns to his allies at the Dragonpit, where they are joined shortly after by his brother and sister. Cersei claims she will agree to the truce and send the Lannister forces north to fight alongside the Starks and the Targaryens. After a discussion at Dragonstone over their journey to the North, Tyrion accompanies his Queen and Jon Snow aboard a ship that will take them to White Harbor. On the voyage, Tyrion witnesses Daenerys allowing Jon into her cabin, where the two of them give in to their mutual attraction and engage in a sexual encounter. Concerned with the possible political consequences for his Queen, Tyrion walks away.
Tyrion drinks with Jaime before the impending battle.
Cersei tasks Bronn with eliminating her brothers if they survive the war against the White Walkers. Tyrion reaches Winterfell along with Targaryen forces, in order to assist the North in the Great War. When the Northern lords are angry with Jon for giving up his crown to Daenerys, Tyrion speaks up for Jon, saying his efforts managed to secure them the "greatest army the world has ever seen" to defeat the Night King. However, when Tyrion reveals they allied with Lannister forces, their anger erupts again.
Tyrion finds Sansa for the first time since they last saw each other at Joffrey's wedding and note each other's new titles/ Tyrion calls the wedding "a miserable affair", though Sansa sardonically remarks, "It had its moments." She calls Tyrion out for believing that Cersei will honor the pledge to send the Lannister forces north. She is disappointed in Tyrion, saying she used to think Tyrion was the cleverest man she ever met.
Several days later, Jaime arrives at Winterfell after realizing Cersei wasn't sending her forces to assist them. Tyrion vouches for Jaime, saying he knows him. Daenerys replies, "Like your sister?" but Tyrion explains Jaime came anyway, knowing how he'd be received. Daenerys is furious with Tyrion for not expecting Cersei's betrayal, but is mollified by Jorah. While preparing for the battle, Tyrion, Podrick, Jaime, Brienne of Tarth, Tormund and Davos Seaworth engage in drinking, with Jaime knighting Brienne. Tyrion watches the White Walkers' arrival from the battlements of Winterfell.
Tyrion celebrates the defeat of the dead.
Tyrion survives the Battle of Winterfell and some time later, he mocks Jaime for sleeping with a bigger woman. They are, however, caught unawares by Bronn, who has been sent by Cersei to kill both her brothers. Tyrion has his nose busted by Bronn who hesitates to kill them, believing Daenerys still has a good chance of winning, and states he has been promised Riverrun as a reward. Tyrion reminds him of his promise to double the price anyone paid to murder him, and promises to make him the Lord of Highgarden after the war, upon which he relents.
Tyrion attempts to parley with Cersei.
He later takes part in planning the Battle of King's Landing. He, along with Jon and others, convinces Daenerys in besieging the city instead of using the dragons. After learning of Jon's true parentage from Sansa, he informs Varys about it. All hopes for a peaceful surrender are quickly dashed, after the Iron Fleet's ambush and Cersei having Missandei executed, even though Tyrion begs Cersei to surrender, for the sake of her unborn child.
Tyrion bids farewell to Varys.
While King's Landing is being besieged by the Unsullied, Tyrion returns along with the Queen to Dragonstone. When Jon returns to the Island, Tyrion overhears Varys pleading with him to take the Iron Throne and informs Daenerys about it, though he unsuccessfully begs for forgiveness for the Spider. Tyrion tells Varys he was behind his betrayal being discovered, and bids a final goodbye to him, before he is burnt alive by Drogon.
Tyrion watches in horror as King's Landing is destroyed.
Daenerys, who now believes she can only win Westeros through fear, is seemingly persuaded by Tyrion to stop attacking once King's Landing surrenders. She informs Tyrion that Jaime had been captured while trying to sneak into the city, warning him not to fail her again or it will be the last time. Before the Battle of King's Landing, Tyrion secretly releases Jaime. He convinces him to try to convince Cersei to have the city surrender and flee with her to Pentos to start a new life, for the sake of their unborn child. He also tearfully thanks Jaime for being the only family member to treat him with love and not as a monster, before the brothers hug. However, Tyrion's plan is foiled when after the city surrenders, Daenerys has Drogon burn King's Landing and raze over the Red Keep, killing Cersei and Jamie in the process. Tyrion stares in absolute horror at the untold destruction of the city.
Tyrion wanders through the ruined King's Landing.
After the destruction of King's Landing, Tyrion, Jon, and Davos walk through the remains of the city, horrified by the devastation. Tyrion decides to go to the Red Keep alone and goes down to the cellars where he discovers the dead bodies of his siblings and tears up. After Daenerys finishes her speech on liberating the whole world, she confronts Tyrion about him freeing his brother. In response, he states that she slaughtered a whole city, and removes his Hand of the Queen brooch before throwing it away in disgust. Daenerys, furious at a further betrayal, orders him arrested.
Jon later visits Tyrion in his cell and they speak of Daenerys's actions. Tyrion admits he was wrong to betray Varys who turned out right all along about her. Jon struggles with what Daenerys has become and wants to believe the war is done, trying to reason out her actions due to the various traumas she suffered but Tyrion tries to make Jon see the threat Daenerys now is. Tyrion tells him, "I know you love her. I love her too, but not as successfully as you, but I believed in her with all my heart. Love is more powerful than reason." Jon reflects, "Love is the death of duty." Tyrion further says that duty is the death of love. He realizes he's asking Jon to do a terrible thing, but tells him it is also the right thing to save the people as Daenerys is now the biggest threat. Tyrion warns Jon that Daenerys will always view him as a threat to her rulership because he is the true heir to the throne. Jon struggles with what Tyrion is asking of him due to his love for Daenerys. Tyrion reminds Jon of his sisters, expressing his belief that they will not bend the knee to Daenerys. Jon leaves, troubled.
Tyrion is brought before the Great Council of Westeros.
Jon tries but is unable to dissuade Daenerys from her path of destruction and reluctantly assassinates her, upon which he is imprisoned. Weeks later, Tyrion is tried in the Dragonpit by all the Lords of the Seven Kingdoms. Tyrion convinces Grey Worm to let the new King of the Seven Kingdoms punish Jon, after the lords of Westeros oppose the Unsullied's desires to punish him. He then asks the gathering that they should choose the new monarch of the Seven Kingdoms and end the war once and for all. After some rejected ideas, he suggests Bran Stark to be named the new king, because he is the living memory of the world and it is stories that unite people.
Despite concerns that Bran could never sire any children, Tyrion says it is for the better as heirs often don't make good kings. He proposes that all the lords of the Seven Kingdoms choose the new king, which is accepted by all except Sansa. Bran picks Tyrion as his Hand so as to charge him with atoning for his past mistakes in both supporting and committing treason against Bran's predecessor. Grey Worm opposes it initially but relents.
Tyrion tells Jon of his exile.
Later, Tyrion visits Jon and informs him that a compromise has been reached and he is going back to the Night's Watch. Jon accepts this and asks Tyrion if what he did was right. "What we did," Tyrion corrects. Jon says it doesn't feel right. They bid farewell, Tyrion telling Jon they'll see each other again, saying he wants to "go pissing off the Wall again" after serving for a few years as the Hand. Tyrion reforms the Small Council, now consisting of Bronn, now the Lord of Highgarden, as Master of Coin, Davos as Master of Ships, Sam as Grand Maester and Brienne as Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. He also seems to have retrieved the silver hand brooch that was gifted to him by Daenerys, indicating that despite having ended their relationship on bad terms, he still believed in who she used to be and the wheel she wanted to break.
Tyrion discusses the vacant positions in the reformed Small Council.
King Bran however notices the position of Masters of War, Laws and Whisperers are vacant, which Tyrion assures will be filled before the king goes away to find Drogon. They then move on to their primary tasks concerning the rehabilitation of King's Landing, providing clean water, food to civilians, the reconstruction of the royal fleet and the ports. As Bronn discusses using some of the Crown's gold to rebuild the city's brothels, which is met with opposition, Tyrion relates how he once brought 'a honeycomb and a jackass into a brothel.'
As the last surviving child of Tywin Lannister, Tyrion has finally become Lord of Casterly Rock, the title his father has been trying to deny him of for so many years.
Tyrion is a highly intelligent man who recognized from an early age that his mind was his greatest weapon, due to being born a member of House Lannister with the expectation of upholding his family's noble name, yet lacking the physical attributes possessed by his older siblings. Thus, he has committed himself to possessing a sharp intellect in order to help make up for his dwarfism, and he is frequently able to use his superior intellect to get the better of those who initially look down upon him or weasel his way out of tight situations, though he is not above resorting to using his family name and enormous fortune to bolster his position. He has also shown himself to possess a keen mind for strategy, as is evidenced in his research into defending against sieges and successfully conducting the defense of King's Landing during the Battle of the Blackwater. Tyrion prides himself on his ability to read people as easily as he does books, and he has on many occasions easily gotten the better of not just Joffrey and Cersei but also experienced players such as Littlefinger and Pycelle.
Despite his harsh treatment at the hands of others over the years, Tyrion has managed to develop a thick skin and is able to brush off others' japes about his short stature (except when coming from his father). Tyrion advised Jon Snow how to handle his own bastard status, which reflects Tyrion's own approach to life: take your impediment in stride and wear it like armor, so it cannot be used to hurt you. Being born a dwarf and subject to ridicule for most of his life, Tyrion has admittedly developed a soft spot for his fellow outcasts and has shown them kindness, such as having a saddle designed for the crippled Bran Stark allowing him to ride. Being physically weak, Tyrion is also upset when the helpless are harmed. He was particularly enraged when Janos Slynt carried out an order to kill a defenseless baby girl, Barra (because she was one of Robert's bastards), and as punishment had him exiled to the Wall. Tyrion is also genuinely loyal to those who treat him with love and respect. He also seems to have a level of honor and dignity that the rest of his family seem to lack; events such as the Red Wedding disgusted him, and he considered them to be crimes (though he did admit that there was a certain level of "cheating" in war that he is comfortable with, the Red Wedding went beyond that). One of his most interesting and enduring friendships is with the eunuch Varys, the Master of Whisperers. Tyrion and Varys connect on several levels: they are both social lepers because of a physical condition that most people treat with distaste, they are both brilliant intellectuals with a dry sense of humor, they both have a compassionate nature but are capable of being ruthless when necessary, and they are both fond of wine. Although Tyrion and Varys were wary of each other at first (mainly due to the extreme reputations they both maintained), they have developed trust over the course of their various adventures.
Tyrion, however, is not without faults. He tends to overindulge in food, drink, and sex in part to self-medicate for the terrible treatment he's suffered most of his life; when overly stressed, upset or uncomfortable, he will quickly find the nearest container of wine or beer and consume most of it. Tyrion can also act viciously if he feels he's been wronged - such as confining Grand Maester Pycelle to the Black Cells for betraying him or, in his darkest hour, killing Shae for testifying against him during his trial and having an affair with his father, and then going on to kill Tywin himself. Because his father and sister treated him like a social leper, Tyrion craves love and acceptance and is genuinely hurt when this is denied him by others.
He has complex relationships with other members of his family, most of whom resent him and only thinly veil their contempt for his existence. His older sister Cersei blames him for causing the death of their mother and has (as revealed during a conversation with Oberyn) hated Tyrion since his birth. His father, Tywin, shares Cersei's resentment for Tyrion due to the death of his wife while birthing him, as Joanna was the only person Tywin ever loved. Although Tywin recognizes and respects Tyrion's intellect, it does not lessen his prejudice towards his youngest son; by the same token Tyrion fears and admires his father, but hates him for his inflexibility and unwillingness to show any love for his children. Tywin also just thinks it is an embarrassment that Tyrion was born with a physical disability, seeing it as a judgement from the gods meant to humiliate him by his son's mere existence.
Only Tyrion's older brother Jaime maintained a good relationship with Tyrion, admiring him for both his intellect and inability to let his diminished stature drag him down, and he has frequently attempted to come to Tyrion's defense when his other family members treat him maliciously, making Jaime the only member of his immediate family whom Tyrion loves. Tyrion harbors a mutual admiration for Jaime, even naming him as his champion when he demanded a trial by combat while being held prisoner at the Eyrie. However, this cozy relationship ended when Tyrion killed their father, although they reconciled since then. The last time they were together, Tyrion tearfully thanked his brother for being the only Lannister to treat him like a brother, not a monster and that Jaime helped Tyrion survived his childhood.
Despite his poor and mutually hateful relationship with his sister Cersei, Tyrion was noted to have had a very good relationship with at least two of her children; Myrcella and Tommen. This is seen where Mrycella showcased active care, affection, love and worry for Tyrion and when he returned safely back to King's landing, she made sure to happily state that she was glad he survived alongside Tommen. Tyrion himself reciprocates her affection and love and despite his relationship with their mother, truly cared for them. As seen where Tyrion was enraged upon learning of Mrycella's death and angerly argued with Ellaria Sand due to her hand in her death.
After he killed Shae and his father, Tyrion becomes a broken man: he had lost the will to live. Traumatized by killing the woman he loved and losing his lordship, influence and fabulous wealth, he becomes more cynical and pessimistic and was content to just drink himself to death instead of helping Varys to aid Daenerys Targaryen in getting the Iron Throne. Tyrion becomes convinced in the futility of everything, gaining a negative and rather fatalistic outlook on the past and the future, to the point of suicidal, as well gains a lower view for matters he dealt with high esteem and importance beforehand in the past, such as the Great Houses or the bid for the Iron Throne. Even when meeting Daenerys face to face, Tyrion explained that he was still content to die. However, whilst helping with the chaos in Meereen, and keeping Daenerys from becoming like her father in her ruthlessness, he regains his will to live. He also finally finds something to believe in, as he believes in Daenerys. His sense of humor is more muted and cynical than before, however; this may be the result of his no longer being able to rely on his family title for protection and influence, and having to earn his merits with Daenerys on his brains alone.
Although Tyrion's skills with political maneuvering, administration, and diplomacy are extremely impressive, his record as a military strategist and tactician are more mixed. In this respect, he is similar to his father, although unlike Tywin, Tyrion's lack of skill on the battlefield has more to do with his unwillingness to inflict heavy loss of life on either side. He achieved a successful ambush at the Battle of the Blackwater with his wildfire trap and led his troops personally on a sortie, but this alone was still not enough to win the battle without help from Tywin and the Tyrells; indeed, the massive casualties resulting from the wildfire shook him and (presumably) made him reluctant to use such a devastating weapon again. This, in turn, made him somewhat overly cautious in his strategy to help Daenerys win against Cersei. As a result, most of his battle plans, with the exception of capturing Casterly Rock, failed, leading Daenerys to lose her patience with his strategy and take matters into her own hands. Nonetheless, Tyrion played a valuable role in developing and solidifying the alliance between Daenerys and Jon Snow, the King in the North.
Tyrion is somewhat of a pacifist in his heart. This is evident, when he several times advised Daenerys not to resort to violence in order to solve problems (though this was also an attempt to make sure she doesn't become like her father). He always desires a less violent approach to matters, only resorting for it when there is no other way.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Tyrion is in his mid-twenties when the events of the series begin, whereas in the show his age is not mentioned. However, the age gap between him and his siblings is smaller: in the books, Tyrion was born when Cersei and Jaime were 7, while in the show, they were 4. This was likely to accommodate the actors: Peter Dinklage is four years older than Lena Headey and one year older than Nikolaj Coster-Waldau.
As well as being a dwarf, Tyrion is misshapen and often described as ugly and having eyes of two different colors, one green and one black. He is described as having a huge disproportionate head and an pronounced ungainly waddle when he walks. His hair is lank and very pale, but when he lets his beard grow in it comes in as a mixture of blonde and black hairs. In the beginning of the TV series, actor Peter Dinklage insisted on not having a beard, because he felt that bearded dwarfs are a fantasy stereotype, though he agreed to grow a beard from the fifth season onwards.
Cersei hated Tyrion ever he was born, unjustly blaming him (like their father) of their mother's death, and also due to Maggy's prophecy about the "valonqar"; she hurt him on several occasions. Jaime, on the other hand, always treated Tyrion kindly.
Ever since he was a child, Tyrion has been interested in dragons. He used to dream of riding a dragon, imagining he was some lost Targaryen princeling, or a Valyrian dragonlord. He once asked his uncles Gerion and Tygett for one as a nameday present, and was devastated to hear that the last dragon had died a century ago. He eagerly reads any accounts he can find about dragons, though most of those are idle tales. On the way to Volantis, the sellsword Griff orders Tyrion to set down all he knows of dragonlore; the task is formidable, but Tyrion labors at it diligently. The thought about meeting Daenerys and her dragons makes Tyrion relive his childhood dreams.
Tysha was reported to be the daughter of a crofter rather than a wheelwright (this may have been for the benefit of North American audiences who are less likely to know what a crofter is) and the marriage took place when he was only 13 years old. He bought them a little cottage where they lived as man and wife for their two week marriage, before his father had it annulled. Tywin not only had 50 guards rape her, but then ordered Tyrion to have sex with her as well, giving her a gold piece as a Lannister is worth more.
At the Battle of the Green Fork, Tyrion is not knocked out by his own men. In fact he leads with distinction, holding the line under great adversity. Later when he tells his father that the plan to kill him by putting him in the vanguard (under the command of Ser Gregor Clegane) failed, Tyrion learns that his father had put him there hoping that an inexperienced Tyrion with undisciplined hill tribesmen would break and run to be pursued into a trap by the Stark forces. Tyrion holding the line had ruined the plan. It is a combination of this along with his reading of the situation they face in the war, and the fact that Jaime may not be retrievable, that makes Tywin decide to make use of Tyrion as acting Hand. Tyrion realizes that Tywin is preparing for the worst, that the Starks might well kill Jaime as revenge for Eddard's murder, so he is finally giving Tyrion real power.
When Tyrion relieves Janos Slynt of command of the Gold cloaks, it is Ser Jacelyn Bywater or "Ironhand" who becomes their new commander, not Bronn. It is Varys, not Tyrion, who comes up with the suggestion to send Joffrey some prostitutes to soften his temper, but the results are not shown. Tyrion does not send Littlefinger to Catelyn at Renly's camp with Lord Eddard's bones and an offer for the release of Jaime (though Baelish is sent to treat with the Tyrells after Renly's death). The bones are sent with Cleos Frey (replaced by Alton Lannister in the series) to Riverrun along with unacceptable peace terms and a force of 100 Lannister soldiers, that hide four men Tyrion has sent to break Jaime out, an escape attempt that fails.
Shae is not brought to the Tower of the Hand; instead she is put in a manse that Tyrion can approach by using a secret tunnel from a brothel. As Stannis's troops advance to the city, Tyrion arranges Shae to become Lollys Stokeworth's servant.
The most important of the defenses for the city that Tyrion builds is a huge chain that stretches across the whole of Blackwater Rush, to be raised after Stannis's fleet enters to trap them inside with the wildfire.
In the book's version of the Battle of Blackwater, Tyrion has almost his entire nose cut off by Ser Mandon Moore's sword swipe; the TV series only included the deep scar across his face (which as also present in the books). As Peter Dinklage explained, "I know, for fans of the books, that Tyrion loses his nose in the battle. But it would be next to impossible and very expensive to do that on television, and I would be wearing a green sock [on my nose, to digitally remove it with greenscreen], I think, for the next however many years, which I don't know how that would be on set. But yeah, the digital artist would have a lot of work on their hands. So I think we came up with a really good solution."
In the official blooper reel for Season 4, when "action" is shouted and a stage hand closes the clapperboard right in front of Dinklage's face, he started jokingly pretending that board was held too close and cut his nose off.
In A Storm of Swords, when Joffrey is poisoned, Cersei is quick to blame Tyrion and have him put on a farcical show trial, which leads him to demand a trial by combat. As this occurs around the same time Jaime returns to the capital, Tyrion confers with his uncle Kevan while in custody, and it is Kevan who persuades Tywin to spare Tyrion and send him to the Night's Watch. After Oberyn Martell is killed and Tyrion is sentenced to death, he is freed by Jaime, who goes on to reveal that his marriage to Tysha was actually a proper marriage and he had been forced by Tywin to make it look like it had been staged. Enraged at such a betrayal, Tyrion vows revenge on Jaime, Cersei and Tywin, spitefully but falsely telling Jaime that he killed Joffrey, and it is for this reason that he confronts and kills Shae and then Tywin while he is on the privy (in the television series, he kills Tywin for Shae, which left some fans confused as to why Tyrion would kill his own father for a woman who committed the ultimate betrayal against him and who he himself had just killed). His story ends just after he kills Tywin, and unlike the end of the fourth season, it is left unrevealed if he escaped Westeros or not.
Tyrion does not appear in the fourth book, A Feast for Crows, and his whereabouts are not revealed, though he is mentioned several times, particularly due to Cersei having placed a bounty on his head, and also Cersei's increasing paranoia that Tyrion is still hiding somewhere in the Red Keep, waiting for the right moment to strike and kill her. Tyrion's escape also fuels Cersei's paranoia of House Tyrell: a Tyrell coin is found in the cell of an undergaoler named Rugen (who is actually Varys in disguise), leading Cersei to believe that the Tyrells, particularly Margaery, might have conspired with Tyrion to murder Joffrey and helped him escape by bribing the guards, maybe even conspired to kill Tywin too.
Several innocent dwarfs are killed by bounty hunters who mistake them for Tyrion. Among them are: a pious dwarf that Brienne meets at the Riverlands; a Tyroshi juggler; Oppo (aka Groat), one of the two dwarfs who performed at Joffrey's wedding.
In A Dance with Dragons, it is finally revealed that Tyrion has successfully fled Westeros with help from Varys, who stays in King's Landing but arranges for Illyrio Mopatis to shelter him in Pentos. While in Illyrio's mansion, Tyrion is persuaded by Illyrio to travel to Meereen with some companions to aid Daenerys Targaryen in reclaiming the Iron Throne, and in the process to take his revenge on both Cersei and Jaime (though he expresses a desire to rape and kill Cersei, he begins to have second thoughts about Jaime near the end of the book).
Tyrion soon joins Illyrio's friends - a sellsword named Griff, his son and their servants (all of whom have been omitted from the TV show). Soon he learns to know that Griff and his son are in fact the presumed-dead Jon Connington and Aegon Targaryen, the son of Rhaegar and Elia. Connington treats Tyrion hostilely, but Aegon befriends him.
Aegon tells Tyrion that he will soon meet Daenerys, marry her, she will give him her troops and dragons, and together they will sail to Westeros and conquer it. Tyrion pours cold water on the overconfident youth's hopes, pointing out his aunt is not some timid little girl who does whatever she is told, but a powerful queen, who has crossed deserts, survived assassins, rallied armies and conquered cities. Tyrion concludes that if Aegon appears before her like that (even with the Golden Company), he'll look like a beggar; he advises Aegon to travel to Westeros instead, raise his banners, rally supporters, and then Daenerys will come and meet him as equals. Aegon accepts Tyrion's advice.
During the journey, they pass Volantis and are attacked by Stone Men. Tyrion falls into the water, but is rescued by Connington, who (not Jorah Mormont) gets infected with greyscale in the process.
While in a brothel (not in Volantis itself, but one of its outlying towns), Tyrion is captured by Jorah Mormont, who intends to take him to Daenerys. They also meet Penny, one of the dwarfs who performed at Joffrey's wedding and whose brother Oppo has recently been killed by dwarf hunters seeking Tyrion; she initially blames Tyrion for Oppo's death and attempts to kill him, but eventually realizes it was not his fault. They board a ship whose destination is Qarth. One of the passengers is Moqorro, a Red Priest who was sent by the High Priest of Volantis, to offer Daenerys guidance and help. Moqorro tells Tyrion he has seen him in a vision as "a small man with a big shadow." Tyrion is flattered to hear that, but is also skeptical.
The ship is badly damaged in a storm. After floating for days, the passengers are captured by slave traders. Tyrion and Penny  are sold to Yezzan zo Qaggaz (who is vastly different from his series counterpart) in his tent in the siege camp outside Meereen; Tyrion saves Jorah from being sold for the fighting pits by persuading the mean overseer of Yezzan's slaves to buy him too, claiming that Jorah participates the show which Tyrion and Penny play. Soon Tyrion impresses Yezzan by through his skill at Cyvasse, a popular board game.
Tyrion and Penny are made to perform in Daznak's Pit, during which Tyrion sees Daenerys from afar and very nearly calls out to her, but stops himself after noticing Barristan Selmy beside her, who may prejudice her against him due to their shared hatred for the Lannisters. The slave masters intend to unleash a pack of lions into the pit, but Daenerys puts a stop to the act, unknowingly saving Tyrion's life.
The "bloody flux" plague decimates the siege; Yezzan is among its victims. Tyrion seizes the opportunity to escape with Jorah and Penny to the camp of the Second Sons, who have recently betrayed Daenerys to side with the armies of Yunkai. Tyrion and Jorah join the sellsword company, intending to persuade them to change their allegiance back to Daenerys in exchange for the wealth of Casterly Rock, his birthright since Jaime has renounced it. Meanwhile, back in King's Landing, Varys shoots Kevan Lannister with a crossbow to fool Cersei into thinking Tyrion is still in the capital.
Tyrion is set to return in The Winds of Winter. A released sample chapter reveals that he and Jorah successfully persuade  the Second Sons to rejoin Daenerys and fight for her, while the battle against the Yunkish is going on. Author George R. R. Martin has also confirmed that Tyrion and Daenerys will meet face to face in the book.
As much as Tyrion loathed Joffrey, he wouldn't harm him due to the taboo of kinslaying. After he is told the truth about Tysha, it seems Tyrion does not care anymore about that taboo: he kills his father, and in the fifth novel he brags about the kinslayings he has performed, the actual (his father) and the alleged (Joffrey) alike; he even takes the "credit" for his mother's death, and also states he intends to kill his siblings.
Tyrion and Jaime have always been on good terms. When Tyrion was small, Jaime brought him toys, barrel hoops, blocks and a carved wooden lion. He gave Tyrion his first pony and taught him how to ride. Tyrion vividly recalls all that in the fifth novel, when he thinks about Tysha; he is filled with bitterness at the thought that he was betrayed by his brother, his own blood, whom he never doubted. Yet, by the end of the novel, Jaime is the first name that comes to his mind when he is asked "what do you miss?"; perhaps Tyrion begins to have second thoughts about Jaime, although he has not forgiven him yet.
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Tyrion Lannister" is pronounced "TEER-ee-un LAN-iss-ter."
Histories & Lore:"Greyjoy Rebellion: Robb Stark""Greyjoy Rebellion: Theon Greyjoy""Robert's Rebellion: Catelyn Stark""The North""The Westerlands""Winterfell""Riverrun"
King Robb Stark was the eldest son of Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell and his wife, Lady Catelyn.
Following his father's execution, Robb was declared King in the North, won many battles against the House Lannister, but eventually he, his mother, and his forces were slain at the Red Wedding.
Robb as a baby.
Robb was the eldest child of Lady Catelyn and Lord Eddard Stark. Robb was born at Riverrun and raised at Winterfell. His father left his mother the morning after their wedding to fight in Robert's Rebellion and did not return until after Robb was born. Robb Stark was likely named after Robert Baratheon.[citation needed] He had two younger trueborn brothers, Bran and Rickon, and two sisters, Sansa and Arya.
Robb and Jon play as youths.
Robb also had a "bastard half-brother", Jon Snow, with whom Robb shared a close relationship. Jon is actually Robb's cousin by blood, as Jon is the son of Lyanna Stark and Rhaegar Targaryen. Robb was also close to his father's ward, Theon Greyjoy, whom he counted as his best friend outside of the family. Robb had been trained from childhood to wield a sword and wear armor by Winterfell's master-at-arms Ser Rodrik Cassel, and was highly proficient with both for his young age. He lived at Winterfell with his family.
Robb and Jon help Bran during his archery training, at which he is doing rather poorly. Robb instructs Bran to relax his bow arm; however, Bran's application of this somehow makes this his worst shot. Robb, Jon, and Rickon burst into laughter, and are accosted by Ned, remarking that neither Robb nor Jon was a skilled archer at Bran's age. Suddenly, Arya hits Bran's bullseye with an arrow before Bran can. Bran chases Arya while Ned, Catelyn, Robb, and Jon laugh until Ned receives news that a Night's Watch deserter has been found.
Robb and Bran adopt direwolves.
Robb, 17, attends the execution of Will, the deserter, by his father. On their way home with Theon, Jon, and Bran, they find a litter of newborn direwolf pups. Robb is surprised that there are any direwolves south of the Wall. When their father says they can keep the pups, Robb adopts one of them as his own, naming him Grey Wind.
Robb and his family greet the Baratheon entourage.
He welcomes King Robert Baratheon to Winterfell with the rest of his family. He helps his mother maintain discipline during the feast, removing his sister Arya when she starts flicking food at Sansa, despite his amusement. Robb displays an antipathy toward Joffrey from the beginning, noting that he is a "right royal prick," and is visibly annoyed when Sansa looks at Joffrey in admiration.
Robb bids farewell to Jon.
Robb bids farewell to Jon during his departure to the Wall, stating that he'll be all in black the next time they meet, which Jon agrees with, stating that the color suits him well. Due to Bran's being left comatose in a fall, his mother's refusal to leave an unconscious Bran's side, and his father's departure for King's Landing, Robb must help Maester Luwin run the castle, making new appointments to the castle's staff. Because of Catelyn's absence in her care for Bran, Robb deals with the confusion and tears of his youngest brother, Rickon, which he reveals to his mother before a fire breaks out in Winterfell. While Robb attends to this, an assassin breaks in and almost kills Bran, but is stopped by Summer. When Catelyn and Ser Rodrik decide that threats from the Lannisters necessitate their departure for the capital, Robb is left in command of Winterfell. Robb visits a recovering Bran and has to tell him that he will never walk again. Bran says he would rather have died.
Robb, now Lord of Winterfell, receives Tyrion.
Robb receives Tyrion Lannister and Yoren, both traveling down from the Wall to King's Landing together. Robb very pointedly offers hospitality to any man of the Watch, silently letting Tyrion know he is not invited to stay at Winterfell. When Bran arrives, Tyrion asks if he likes to ride and sympathizes with him for being a cripple, which annoys Bran, but Tyrion simply says that like being a dwarf, it is the truth, no less so for being a hard truth. He gives Bran the design of a saddle which will allow Bran to ride even in his current state; Tyrion explains to Robb that "you must shape the horse to the rider," by starting with a yearling and training it to respond to the reins and Bran's voice (as he can't use his heels). When Robb asks why Tyrion had done this favor for Bran, he explains that he has a certain sympathy for "cripples, bastards, and broken things." Due to this kindness, Robb says he can stay, but Tyrion says he would prefer the brothel in town, guaranteeing Robb's easiness.
Robb carries Bran following an altercation with wildlings.
While taking Bran outside the castle to test his new saddle, Robb and Theon are talking about Robb's future plans, when they realize that Bran has wandered off. Bran has been taken hostage by a band of wildlings, but they are found by Robb who advances on them with a sword. One of the wildlings Stiv holds a knife to Bran's throat and makes Robb drop the sword. Theon kills Stiv with an arrow, which angers Robb as Bran could have been injured. Only one of the wildlings, Osha, is taken prisoner. Osha says that the greatest danger lies north of the Wall, from the White Walkers, not from the Lannisters in the south, but Robb disregards her warning.
Following Robert's death and Eddard's arrest, Robb receives a letter from Sansa detailing her wish for Robb to swear fealty to Joffrey, in order to maintain peace between the Starks and the Lannisters. Luwin explains that although Sansa wrote the letter, it is the words of Cersei Lannister expressed on the page. In response Robb instead calls his banners, marching House Stark's vassals to war. When Theon asks whether he is worrisome, he points to the fact that he is shaking, proving himself to be so. Theon assures him that he would be stupid not to be.
Robb sets Grey Wind on the Greatjon.
Robb holds a feast for several of his newly-arrived bannermen. Greatjon Umber assumes that he will lead the vanguard, and is offended by the suggestion that he would be made to march behind Galbart Glover, threatening to withdraw from the host. In response, Robb promises that, after the conflict with the Lannisters, he will oust Greatjon from his keep and hang him for breaking his oaths to House Stark; when the enraged bannerman goes to draw a weapon, Robb's direwolf Grey Wind sets upon him, biting off two of his fingers. Robb recites that "it [is] death to bear steel against your liege lord", but then diffuses the situation by excusing Greatjon's aggression, saying that "doubtless, the Greatjon only meant to cut my meat for me." The Greatjon roars with laughter and accepts Robb's commands, much to the shock of Bran, who witnessed the entire incident. Robb says farewell to Bran and to Rickon, who is convinced he'll see neither Robb nor his parents again.
Catelyn and Ser Rodrik Cassel intercept Robb's army in the Neck as it presses southwards. Robb initially exclaims with excitement upon seeing his mother but stops short of embracing her lest he look weak in front of his bannermen. Catelyn looks at her son with understanding, later embracing once their liege-lords have left their tent. She tells Robb he has no choice but to go to war. However, he cannot lose, for the sake of Ned, Sansa, and Arya, as if he is defeated, Tywin Lannister will show their family no mercy.
Later on, Robb and his lords are debating on the route of their march, and on whether to march directly against Tywin's army or against Jaime's army besieging Riverrun. To get to Jaime, they need to cross the Green Fork of the River Trident, and the only crossing is at the Twins, held by the notoriously prickly and easily-offended Lord Walder Frey. A Lannister scout is captured, and Robb sends him back to warn Lord Tywin that twenty thousand Northern soldiers are marching against him.
Catelyn and Robb debate Walder Frey.
Following Robb's arrival at the Twins, his mother instructs Theon to shoot down messenger ravens, so no word of their presence can be relayed, despite only finding a nameday message to his grand-niece Walda. He quickly realizes that negotiation is the only option, which is proven to be true when Walder's envoys arrive. Catelyn goes in Robb's place as she had previous experience with Walder from her childhood and believes she is more likely to come back alive. Upon her return, Robb hears Walder's conditions: he must take on Olyvar Frey as his squire and knight him in due process, Arya must marry Waldron Frey when they both reach an appropriate age (which Robb jokingly remarks on her future unhappiness) and following the end of the conflict, Robb must marry a woman of House Frey. Understanding the situation, Robb asks Catelyn about the beauty of his daughters, to which she can remember only one. He accepts all the conditions, crossing the Green Fork in the process.
Robb examines his victory at Whispering Wood.
He sends a small force of men to distract the main Lannister army under Tywin's command at the Battle of the Green Fork. Meanwhile, his main army attacks Jaime's forces near Riverrun, winning the Battle of the Whispering Wood and taking Jaime as a captive. Jaime suggests they end the war now with a bout of single combat between himself and Robb, but Robb refuses and has him imprisoned. Robb laments that his diversion sent 2,000 men to their deaths. He gives a speech to his army and tells them that they have won a great victory, but the war is far from over.
Catelyn comforts Robb after Ned's execution.
Robb is devastated by the news of his father's death. He is found hacking his sword at a tree in anger and grief. Catelyn calls to him and tells him he is ruining his sword. Robb drops the sword and falls into her arms, vowing to kill the Lannisters who murdered his father. Catelyn comforts him and promises him revenge, but only after they rescue Sansa and Arya first, both of them unaware that Arya has evaded capture.
Robb Stark is declared the King in the North.
At Robb's camp, Robb and his bannermen debate whether to cooperate with Stannis Baratheon or Renly Baratheon in the war against King Joffrey; Renly has greater forces, but Stannis is the elder Baratheon and next in line of succession excepting Cersei's children. Jon Umber questions why the northerners should be told what to do by rulers in the south at all, reminding them that the North was independent of the other Kingdoms before the  War of Conquest. With the dragons gone, Umber declares there is only one king worthy of his respect and allegiance and bows before Robb, calling out, "The King in the North!" The other northern bannermen take up the cry and bow before the new King in the North, swearing fealty to Robb.
Robb interrogates Jaime with Grey Wind.
Robb continues to win victories against the Lannister army and earns the nickname "The Young Wolf" for his ferocity in battle. He keeps Jaime under guard in his camp to confound attempts to free him, stating that although he trusts his men with his life, Jaime's life is another matter. He receives a letter from Stannis Baratheon, detailing that Joffrey, Myrcella and Tommen Baratheon are the incestuous bastards of Cersei and Jaime. He tells Jaime of this information, who scorns the prospect, reflecting on how convenient this word be for Stannis if it were true. When Jaime insults Robb's youth, Robb rebuts by bringing Grey Wind into the cage and remarking that he Jaime insults himself, as Robb has defeated Jaime and may even kill him. Despite his threats, he leaves Jaime alive; as the son of Tywin Lannister, there are multiple options in which to use him which would be beneficial to the Northern cause.
Robb sends his prisoner Alton Lannister to King's Landing with peace terms. Robb sends deliberately disagreeable terms to Queen Regent Cersei to waste her time: his demands include the release of his sisters, the return of his father's remains along with the remains of all those who served him, and the recognition of the North as a free and independent kingdom. The terms are rejected as expected. Theon appeals to Robb to send him to Pyke to seek an alliance with his father citing their need for a fleet in order to attack King's Landing. Catelyn counsels against putting trust in Balon because of Greyjoy Rebellion. She asks Robb to consider exchanging Jaime for his sisters. She then asks to return to her younger sons at Winterfell, but Robb tasks her with seeking an alliance with Renly, and sends Ser Rodrik instead to Winterfell. Catelyn remarks on the fact that Renly has now declared himself King of the Andals, and how there is now an excess of Kings in Westeros.
Robb and his cavalry ready themselves.
Robb wins a crushing victory against a Lannister reinforcement host, led by Stafford Lannister, at the Battle of Oxcross, tactfully sending Grey Wind in first to deal with the watchmen quickly. This victory is used by the Lannisters in order to make the Northmen seem uncivilized to the south, exaggerating the use of Grey Wind in battle and portraying the Northern army as cannibals.
Roose and Robb debate the use of flaying.
The following day, Robb surveys the battlefield as Silent Sisters tend to both Stark and Lannister wounded, while his bannerman, Lord Roose Bolton of the Dreadfort, argues that they should kill all of the Lannister soldiers they took prisoner because they're having trouble supplying their own army and prisoners will slow them down. Robb disagrees, saying they will fight honorably and follow the laws of war. Bolton concedes that some of the Lannister officers might have useful information they could be tortured into revealing, but Robb refuses, not wanting to give the Lannisters an excuse to torture his sisters.
Robb sees a woman battlefield healer treating a wounded Lannister soldier. The prisoner protests when she tells him she has to amputate in order to save his life. Robb helps hold him down as she saws off the leg. Introducing herself as Talisa, she criticizes Robb for the need for this war. Robb doesn't want the Iron Throne, just revenge on Joffrey for his father's death. She is shocked to learn he doesn't care which king takes the throne after they defeat Joffrey (having declared for neither of the Baratheon brothers). He just wants them to leave the north alone afterward. She points out that for all the bloodshed they have caused, he hasn't hurt the ones who killed his father, Joffrey and Tywin Lannister. The men they slaughtered were not Tywin's main army but unwilling boy soldiers and conscripts from the Westerlands. Intrigued by her, she asks where she is from. She answers Volantis. Robb attempts to compliment her, but she once again quips him on his need for revenge.
Robb introduces Catelyn to Talisa.
Renly is killed just after agreeing to an alliance and Catelyn flees his camp to return to Robb. Renly's men swear fealty to his less agreeable brother Stannis. Robb comes across Talisa again, correctly guessing that she is a noblewoman and further flirting with her. She somewhat reciprocates. Catelyn returns to Robb's camp during their conversation. She asks Talisa about her family, to which Talisa states her family name is Maegyr, which Catelyn does not recognize. Talisa then explains her Volantene origins. Catelyn warns him against pursuing Talisa, reminding of his agreement with Lord Frey.
Robb allows Roose's bastard to retake Winterfell.
They are shocked when news arrives that Theon has betrayed Robb and attacked Winterfell. He asks Roose if there is as news on Bran and Rickon; he says not, but tells him that Rodrik is dead. Robb is furious, but agrees to let Roose's bastard retake the castle. He insists that the safety of his brothers is paramount, and demands that Theon be brought before him, so that he can execute him personally.
Robb makes further demands following his victory at the Yellow Fork.
Robb wins a further victory at the Battle of the Yellow Fork. His prison cells are filled to overflowing with captives. When Ser Alton returns with Cersei's rejection of his terms, Robb houses him with Jaime. Talisa asks him for help obtaining medical supplies and he invites her to accompany him to negotiate the surrender of the Crag, suggesting that she restock from the castle's stores. While Robb is gone Jaime escapes, killing Alton and Torrhen Karstark. He is recaptured, but Lord Rickard Karstark threatens to behead him to avenge Torrhen. Catelyn sends her sworn sword Brienne of Tarth to exchange Jaime for her captive daughters without consulting Robb.
Talisa asks Robb about his engagement.
On their way back from the Crag, Robb and Talisa discuss Robb's engagement, making fun of the fact he knows nothing about her with the exception that she is from House Frey. They later discuss Robb's father Eddard Stark and the lessons he taught Robb about caring for his subjects and who will sit on the Iron Throne. Robb surmises to say that he was to win the war first, after which his first action will be killing Joffrey.
Robb confronts Catelyn.
They are interrupted by news that Catelyn has released Robb's key prisoner: Jaime. Robb is furious at the betrayal, and orders Catelyn kept under guard. He sends men to find Jaime, and devises a plan for Ramsay: offer mercy to Theon's men if they deliver him, so they will abandon him, allowing him to retake Winterfell with minimal bloodshed. Talisa comforts Robb, revealing more of her past.
Talisa and Robb give in.
She explains that a slave saved her brother from drowning in the Rhoyne during a wedding, after which she decided she would no longer live in a slave-city and would dedicate her time to others. This makes Robb emotional, forcing him to admit he does not want to marry into House Frey. Talisa confesses that she feels the same, but remarks on how Robb needed to cross the Twins. They both give in to their mutual feelings and sleep together.
Robb confesses his love for Talisa to Catelyn. Catelyn warns against betraying his oath to marry a daughter of House Frey. She states that she and Ned were not in love as much they were by the end, but also explains that a gradual build-up of care is safer and stronger than what Robb feels for Talisa. Robb rejects her counsel, stating that she has no right to criticize him following her release of Jaime. In a secret ceremony conducted by a Septon of the Faith of the Seven, he and Talisa secretly marry.
Robb and Roose Bolton discuss their attack on Harrenhal.
Robb's host marches on Harrenhal, greatly anticipating the battle ahead, only to find the castle abandoned and the Northern prisoners slain. Robb and his new wife find but one survivor: a maester named Qyburn. Robb then orders his mother imprisoned within the fortress. Robb later receives two letters, relating to the death of his grandfather Hoster Tully and the destruction of Winterfell, as well as the "deaths" of Bran and Rickon. Robb informs his mother before setting off for Riverrun.
Karstark tells Robb of his doubts in their victory.
Robb leaves Roose in command of Harrenhal with a detachment of the Northern army while Robb leads his main host back across the Riverlands to Riverrun. Karstark angrily says that this is a waste of time, though Robb points out that his uncle, Edmure Tully, will reinforce their army. Karstark maintains that it will make no difference since the Lannisters now outnumber them over two to one. Robb asks if Karstark has lost faith in their cause, and Karstark says he still believes in revenge. However, he later says that he thinks Robb lost the war the day he married Talisa.
Robb attends his grandfather's funeral at Riverrun.
After Lord Hoster's funeral, Robb, Blackfish, and Edmure Tully confer in Riverrun's meeting room. The War of the Five Kings is not going well for them, as now that the Lannisters have defeated their enemies in the south and secured King's Landing from attack, as well as a marriage-alliance with House Tyrell, they have superior numbers, wealth, and strategic position. Edmure begins to boast to his nephew about the recent victory won by Tully forces under his direct command at the Battle of Stone Mill, which managed to push the Lannister army under Ser Gregor Clegane from the Riverlands.
Instead, Robb and Brynden are furious with Edmure: their grand strategy for the war was to lure Tywin and Gregor's Lannister armies into the Westerlands, where they would be vulnerable out of position, and more importantly, to leave the capital city vulnerable to attack by the Baratheons. Edmure's role in this was to offer token defense as a feint to lure the Lannisters back across the Red Fork of the Trident. Instead, by successfully attacking the Lannisters at Stone Mill, Edmure kept them penned in the Riverlands, and thus close enough to King's Landing that Tywin was able to rush to the defense of the city at the Battle of the Blackwater. The Starks' strategic position in the war has been ruined. Edmure insists that they took valuable captives in the battle, Willem and Martyn Lannister, but Robb angrily points out that he didn't stop fighting because his sisters are held captive.
Robb analyses Tywin's overall likelihood of victory.
Considering that Tywin didn't stop to negotiate when his own eldest son was captured, taking his younger nephews hostage will have no impact on the war. Edmure tries to at least point out that they lost only two hundred men at Stone Mill and multiple Lannister soldiers died for every man they lost, at which Robb cuts him off and shouts that they need men more than the Lannisters do. At this point, the Lannisters are in such a good strategic position that they can afford to be patient, and grind down Robb's forces through simple attrition.
The prisoners Martyn and Willem are killed by Rickard Karstark and his men, as a payback for his sons' death by Jaime.
Martyn and Willem lie dead before Robb.
The bloody corpses of the prisoners are laid out on the floor in front of Robb in Riverrun's main meeting room. Robb is disgusted, remarking that Karstark needed five men to brutally murder two unarmed squires in their own prison cell. Karstark insists that it was a father's vengeance. Robb points out that these boys had nothing to do with the death of Karstark's sons, who were both killed by Jaime. Rickard explains that he was denied his vengeance when Catelyn set Jaime free in hopes of a prisoner exchange for her daughters in King's Landing. Rickard decides to enact vengeance by killing Jaime's kin who they held prisoner.
Robb angrily shouts that they were only boys and that Karstark can't blame Catelyn for his treasonous killing of prisoners of war. Karstark stands firm and says the only treason is in letting their enemies go when in war, they should be killing them - if Robb's father ever taught him that. Blackfish punches Karstark over this remark, but Robb tells him to leave Karstark alone. Karstark has utterly lost faith in Robb and says that the King in the North will just give him a scolding, though he should probably call him "the King Who Lost the North" after he allowed Winterfell to fall. Robb orders all of Karstark's men hanged, and to hang the watcher last so he can "watch" the others die. Rickard Karstark himself is sent to the dungeons.
Edmure insists that if word of this leaves Riverrun, Tywin Lannister will exact heavy reprisals for the deaths of his young nephews. Therefore, he suggests that they just quietly bury the boys and simply keep silent about their deaths until the war is over. Robb, however, refuses to be a liar: he says he cannot fight a war in the name of justice if he will not serve justice to murderers within his own ranks. All of Robb's advisors tell him this is a bad idea. Catelyn and Talisa warn him that the Karstark soldiers will abandon his cause and return home if he executes their lord, and they are already badly outnumbered. Catelyn says they should keep Lord Rickard hostage, and Edmure agrees, saying that they can just keep him hostage and tell the other Karstarks that no harm will come to him so long as they remain loyal.
Robb ignores their pleas, and he has Lord Karstark brought out to the courtyard of Riverrun to be executed during a driving rainstorm. Karstark points out that not only are both of their Houses descended from the First Men, but the Starks and Karstarks are kin (as House Karstark is a cadet branch of House Stark, founded centuries ago by younger son Karlon Stark).
Robb executes Rickard.
Robb says that their blood relationship did not stop Rickard from betraying him and won't stop Robb from executing him now, but Rickard says it isn't meant to: he wants it to haunt Robb until the day he dies. With his last words, Lord Rickard says that Robb will be cursed (as a kinslayer) and that Robb is no king of his. Obedient to the laws of his father - that the man who passes the sentence must swing the sword - Robb pronounces the sentence of death and personally beheads Lord Rickard.
Robb's strict adherence to justice makes things turn out just as badly as his advisors said they would: the Karstarks withdraw their soldiers from his army and march for home, resulting in Robb losing almost half of his forces which were stationed at Riverrun. Robb openly admits to Talisa that she was right, and he made a mistake. Robb says Tywin Lannister realizes that he's in such a strong position he doesn't even need to attack the Northerners anymore, he just needs to wait, and let their demoralized forces unravel. When the war began Robb's army was unified around a central purpose, but now they have lost momentum, and his generals are acting like bickering children. Robb shows Talisa a war map of the Seven Kingdoms - depicting Robb's armies concentrated around Riverrun and Harrenhal, Lannister and Tyrell armies overrunning the Stormlands, Lannister/Tyrell armies concentrated in King's Landing, and Greyjoy forces occupying the western coasts of the North. Talisa suggests that he try to take the fight to the Lannisters if they won't come to him, but he explains that this is hopeless. Taking the city would have been difficult to begin with, but now Tywin and the bulk of the main Lannister army, as well as a large Tyrell army, are defending the city. Attacking the capital head-on would be suicide, and Tywin would crush them within a day. Talisa suggests that he lead his army back to the North to repulse the Greyjoys from his homeland and rebuild his power base. Robb points out that as soon as all of his tired soldiers are back home, they won't want to leave again - particularly because "winter is coming", and the coming one is expected to be very long, five years or more. The Northerners have been away from their farms fighting in the war, however, so they haven't even begun to collect harvests to set aside as winter stockpiles.
Robb and Talisa analyze their geographical opportunities.
Thus if Robb returns to the North, it will be difficult to rally his men to return south to defend the riverlords who declared for him. Eyeing the map with Talisa, Robb decides that if King's Landing is too strong to attack and he can't return home, his only remaining option is to strike where his enemy is weakest. Robb decides that with the main Lannister army group under Tywin now positioned all the way to the east in King's Landing, he needs to return to the Westerlands and make an all-or-nothing assault against Casterly Rock. This will make the Lannisters lose face, just as Robb did when he lost his home castle of Winterfell, and bring momentum back to his army. However, with the loss of the Karstark forces, they don't currently have enough men to consider attacking Casterly Rock. The only way they can gain enough soldiers to even attempt such an assault is if Robb can win back the allegiance of House Frey, whose thousands of soldiers withdrew from Robb's army when he broke his promise to make a marriage-alliance with them by marrying Talisa, a political nobody, instead of one of Lord Walder Frey's daughters. Thus, Robb must try to repair his alliance with House Frey.
Robb urges Edmure to accept the marriage alliance with the Freys.
Robb and his advisors meet with "Black Walder" and Lothar Frey to discuss an alliance for his planned attack on Casterly Rock. The Freys carry Walder Frey's demands for an alliance, which includes a formal apology from Robb, the castle Harrenhal and all of its lands and incomes, and for Edmure to marry Roslin, one of his daughters. Edmure is reluctant to marry a woman he has never met but is eventually convinced by the group to go through with the arrangement.
Talisa eyes Robb as Catelyn discusses Walder's grudge against them.
In the Riverlands, en route to the Twins, Robb's army is forced to make camp, their progress delayed by heavy rain. Catelyn warns them that the prickly Walder will take the delay as an insult to him, but Edmure points out that Frey is getting the wedding he wanted; his sister counters that he is getting a wedding, but not the one he wanted, glaring at her son and his wife as she says so, pointing out that Frey wanted one of his daughters wed to a king. Robb retorts that Edmure is the best match House Frey has been offered in its history. Later that night as Robb and Talisa prepare for bed, she reveals that she is pregnant with his child. Robb is pleased by the news.
Meanwhile, the priestess Melisandre performs a ritual using leeches filled with fresh blood forcibly taken from Gendry, Robert Baratheon's bastard son. At her direction, Stannis then throws the leeches onto a fire and recites the names of three people he wants dead: "The usurper Robb Stark, the usurper Balon Greyjoy, the usurper Joffrey Baratheon."
Robb and Catelyn discuss their plans for Casterly Rock.
Robb later consults with his mother about attacking Casterly Rock. Robb claims that it is a dangerous move, but if Tywin's castle is taken away from him - the lords of Westeros will realize he is not invincible. Catelyn points out that the plan requires the cooperation of Lord Frey, and in case reinforcements arrive from King's Landing before the castle is taken - the Stark host will be destroyed. She silently examines the map, and finally says in a harsh voice "Show them how it feels to lose what they love."
Robb's army arrives at the Twins, the castle seat of House Frey, for his uncle Edmure's wedding. Enduring Lord Frey's insults directed at him and his wife, Robb makes a public apology to Lord Frey's daughters and granddaughters for breaking his promise to marry one of them. Frey accepts the apology and offers the Starks and their men his hospitality.
Robb and Talisa converse during Edmure's wedding.
That night Edmure is introduced to his bride Roslin, discovering much to his relief that she is a beauty. The feast that follows is quite celebratory, with all the participants in high spirits. Lord Walder then calls for the bedding ceremony. Robb agrees and Roslin is carried off by the male guests and followed closely by Edmure, who is collected by the Frey women. Talisa remarks on how strange the custom is, to which Robb says that it is the only proof of consummation. Talisa corrects him, saying that pregnancy is alternate evident. She states that she does not know the gender, but believes they should call it "Eddard" if it is a boy, pleasing Robb.
After they leave and the festivities begin to wind down, Catelyn becomes suspicious when she notices Black Walder Rivers close the banquet hall doors and the musicians in the gallery begin playing "The Rains of Castamere" - the song commemorating House Lannister's brutal elimination of House Reyne. Walder rises to make a toast to Robb, and Catelyn, seated beside Roose, notices that the latter is wearing mail under his clothing. Realizing they have been led into a trap, Catelyn slaps Roose across the face and screams a warning to Robb, but by then it is too late.
Robb crawls towards his dead wife.
Lord Walder signals his men to attack. Lothar draws a knife and repeatedly stabs the pregnant Talisa in the stomach, fatally wounding her and killing their unborn child. Before he can react, Robb is shot by the musicians with crossbows several times and falls to the ground. Numerous other Stark men are killed by the assassins or Frey men. Robb crawls towards Talisa despite his injuries and manages to hold her in his arms, but he sees that she is dead.
Roose kills Robb, giving him the Lannister's regards.
Catelyn, having been wounded by a crossbow bolt, manages to take Joyeuse Frey hostage, threatening to kill her if Walder doesn't spare Robb, who lingers despondent beside his wife's corpse. Walder refuses, dismissing his wife as replaceable. Robb drags himself back onto his feet and weakly calls out "Mother" to her in a daze. As Catelyn looks into Robb's eyes, Roose Bolton steps in front of Robb and tells him, "The Lannisters send their regards," and stabs Robb through the heart. Catelyn, heartbroken, screams as she cuts Joyeuse's throat before her own throat is slit by Black Walder.
Robb's body is attached to the head of Grey Wind.
As the massacre of Robb's army rages outside the Twins, Robb's body is paraded atop a horse across the keep, with the head removed and replaced with that of his direwolf, Grey Wind, sewn in its place as a final insult to the King in the North. This sight is witnessed by Arya and the Hound during their escape. Later on, Arya and the Hound come across a group of camping Frey soldiers, one of whom is describing the process of sewing Grey Wind's head onto Robb's body. Arya stabs the man to death while the Hound kills the rest, exacting a small vengeance for Robb.
Later on, after receiving a raven from Walder Frey with news of the massacre, Tywin summons Tyrion, who finds his father in the company of an overjoyed Joffrey, along with Cersei, Varys, and Pycelle. Tyrion reads the letter, at first not knowing what it means, but Joffrey bluntly tells him the news that Robb and his mother are dead, and asks Pycelle to write back to Lord Frey to thank him and command him to send him Robb's head, in order to serve it to Sansa at his wedding feast. After a brief altercation between Joffrey and Tywin, the king is escorted to his chambers and Tyrion is left alone with Tywin; Tyrion then reveals his knowledge of Tywin's involvement in the massacre by promising Walder Frey and Roose Bolton protection from the Northern outrage that is soon to come. Tyrion chides his father for such a dishonorable way to end the war, but Tywin justifies this by claiming that it was to protect their family. After their conversation ends bitterly, Tyrion immediately returns to a tearful Sansa, who has discovered the news of her mother's and brother's deaths as well.
Emotionally crushed by the deaths of Robb and Catelyn, Sansa refuses to eat, despite pleas from Shae. When Tyrion attempts to comfort her, she reveals to him that she can no longer sleep, but instead lies awake all night thinking about how her mother and brother died, having learned that the Freys had sewn Grey Wind's head onto Robb's decapitated corpse and later flung Catelyn's corpse into the Trident to rot. Tyrion tells Sansa that he did not know Robb very well, but the brief time he met him in Winterfell was enough for him to believe that Robb was a good man.
Having also learned of Robb's death, Jon Snow confides to Samwell Tarly about the last time he saw his brother, remembering their farewell in the courtyard. He confesses how he felt that he lived in Robb's shadow, feeling Robb was better than him at everything when they were young but Jon couldn't hate him and they had loved one another as brothers.
At the Dreadfort, Ramsay has also learned of Robb's death and joins his father in pledging allegiance to the Lannisters. While being shaved by Theon, now going by the name "Reek", Ramsay tells him of Robb's death at Roose Bolton's hands and mockingly offers his condolences, knowing full well that Theon loved Robb like a brother. Despite his betrayal, Theon is visibly shocked at the news of Robb's death, and for a moment appears to be on the verge of slitting Ramsay's throat with the razor in retaliation, but refrains from doing so since Roose and Locke are also present. Ramsay is also aware of Robb's close relationship with Jon, whom Ramsay claims may be a threat to their hold on the North if he is to seek revenge for Robb's death.
An offensive reenactment of the War of the Five Kings during Joffrey's wedding feast boasts an intentionally tasteless depiction of Robb, played by a dwarf.
At the wedding feast of King Joffrey and Margaery Tyrell, Lady Olenna Tyrell briefly consoles Sansa about the Red Wedding. Olenna notes that despite it being a time of war, it was still horrid to murder someone in such a disgusting manner, and at a wedding no less. Later, during the feast, King Joffrey offers a mock reenactment of the War of the Five Kings with dwarf performers. One dwarf wears a fake wolf head over his head and constantly yells "I'm the King in the North," only to end up beheaded by the dwarf portraying Joffrey. Much to Sansa's disgust and heartache, the dwarf Joffrey then simulates having intercourse with the decapitated wolf head.
Despite the fact that he had previously participated in a blood ritual out of hope that it would lead to Robb's death, Stannis remains disgusted at the manner of Robb's demise and offers to avenge him by killing Roose Bolton in an attempt to sway Jon to his side. Later, when Jon is signing request letters to various houses for new recruits as the newly elected Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, he balks at sending one to Roose Bolton, reminding Samwell Tarly that Roose murdered his brother Robb.
Meanwhile, Sansa is brought to Winterfell by Petyr Baelish in order to be wed. Initially thinking she was to be married to Roose Bolton, Sansa is mortified at the idea of having to marry the man who murdered her brother. Although Petyr corrects her by informing her that she was to be wed to his son, Ramsay Bolton, this did not make Sansa any less displeased about this betrothal.
Theon Greyjoy - clad in a tunic identical to the one Robb died in, as he watches Ramsay rape Sansa.
On the night that Sansa and Ramsay wed, Theon is forced to give the bride away and watch as Ramsay proceeds to forcibly consummate their marriage. While all of this is happening, Theon wears a tunic identical to the one that Robb wore at the Red Wedding. Over the next few days, Ramsay continues to force himself on Sansa, who turns to Theon for help only to discover later on that he informed Ramsay of her escape plan. She demands an answer for his latest betrayal and coldly expresses approval when he tells her about the horrific tortures Ramsay put him through. Theon shamefully admits he deserves to be "Reek" and lists the many terrible things he did, the first of which was betraying Robb.
While visiting the Boltons at Winterfell, Harald Karstark assures them that House Stark lost his loyalty when Robb cut off his father's head.
Meanwhile, Theon decides to part ways with Sansa as she travels north to Castle Black to be reunited with her brother Jon Snow, entrusting Sansa's safety to Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne. Although Sansa assures Theon that she will vouch for him if he comes with them, Theon cites his betrayal of Robb as one of many reasons why he fears that Jon may still kill him. When Jon and Sansa attempt to rally the support of House Glover, Lord Robett Glover refuses, citing Robb's inability to protect the North from the ironborn because he had been distracted by a "foreign whore" and had gotten himself and all of his men killed.
When Jaime and his forces are tasked with assisting House Frey in recapturing Riverrun from Ser Brynden Tully, Jaime discusses the terms of surrender with the Blackfish who asks Jaime if he wishes to resume his captivity, having been Robb's prisoner for many months during the war.
Jaime then attempts to reason with Edmure Tully, who had been a Lannister-Frey prisoner in the years following the Red Wedding, to order his men to stand down and to open the gates to the castle. During their discussion, Edmure remarks that he does not understand how Jaime is able to live with himself due to all the horrible things he has done - namely playing a part in murdering his entire family and the conditions of his imprisonment over the past few years. Jaime explains to Edmure his admiration for his deceased sister Catelyn Stark and that he actually admired her far more then he admired Robb or Ned.
Following the successful Second Siege of Riverrun, Walder Frey invites Jaime and his forces to the Twins for a celebratory feast. During the party, Walder questions Jaime's ability in combat and mentions that the last battle Jaime fought in, he had been defeated and captured by Robb. Walder then also remarks that it does not matter given that they are both victors and "kingslayers," referring to his betrayal against Robb and Jaime's betrayal of Aerys II Targaryen.
During an assembly of Northern and Vale lords following the Battle of the Bastards, Lord Wyman Manderly notes how he had refused to support Jon and Sansa because his son Wendel had died for Robb, and he did not want more Manderlys dying for nothing.
Sansa Stark tells Jon that even though she loved and misses them, both Robb and Ned made mistakes that led to their deaths.
Jon meets with Daenerys Targaryen at Dragonstone. She mentions to Jon that she also lost two brothers, just as he had lost two of his, Robb and Rickon.
After Jaime captures Highgarden from House Tyrell, he informs Olenna that he learned from his past mistakes and utilized the same tactic that Robb used against him years ago during the Battle of the Whispering Wood, in which he and his father had been tricked by Robb into thinking the entire northern army was moving against Tywin's encampment but rather it was a ploy and the real bulk of the army surprised Jaime's forces and successfully captured him during the fighting.
Following Robb's death at the Twins, his army was completely massacred with the exception of the Bolton and Frey men. Robb's involvement in the War of the Five Kings comes to an abrupt end with King Joffrey and House Lannister being victorious over House Stark. The North, now without a King and having lost thousands of men during the war, have no choice but to adhere to House Bolton's control of the North. Roose Bolton and his then-bastard son Ramsay, demand complete loyalty from former Stark bannermen and enforce their new rule by executing and flaying any who oppose. The Boltons also rally the north behind a common enemy, House Greyjoy, whose ironborn soldiers still occupy areas in the north following Robb's death. With Bolton assistance, the northerners repel the Ironborn and once again become loyal to the crown. Robb's execution of Rickard Karstark days before the Red Wedding lead the Karstarks, a cadet branch of House Stark, to abandon Robb, and over the years they continued to view him with distaste and considered the execution of Rickard to have been the ultimate act of betrayal. Other once-loyal northern lords also found themselves with unsavory views of Robb. After the death of Greatjon Umber, Smalljon Umber, now lord of House Umber, allied himself to Ramsay, the new Warden of the North following the death of Roose, in order to defeat the thousands of Free Folk whom Jon allowed past the Wall. House Glover, now lead by Lord Robett Glover, refused to answer Jon and Sansa's plea for help when they prepare to take back Winterfell from the Boltons, with Robett going so far as to speak ill of Robb's war and that his marriage to a "foreign whore" got himself and all of his men killed. House Manderly under Lord Wyman Manderly initially also do not assist Jon and Sansa; it is later mentioned that Wyman's son died for Robb, and that he did not want to sacrifice more Manderly lives for a lost cause. Lyanna Mormont, Lady of House Mormont, also initially is hesitant to assist given that she too does not want to sacrifice more Mormont lives.
In the Riverlands, Robb's rule also comes to an end and House Tully is stripped of its ancestral title and home by House Frey with the backing of the crown, the Lannisters, and the Boltons. Robb's uncle Edmure is kept prisoner in the years following his wedding. However, Brynden Tully, the "Blackfish", continues a guerrilla war against House Frey for control of Riverrun and eventually manages to take control of it back from the Freys. In response, Jaime under order from King Tommen is sent to lay siege to the castle. Using Edmure as a way to override the Blackfish's control, the remaining Tully forces surrender and the Blackfish is killed. House Tully, whose forces are the only remaining remnants of Robb's army, then becomes subservient to the crown and the new lord of the Riverlands, Walder Frey.
Robb's death is a cause for celebration in King's Landing, as Joffrey openly mocks Robb and the way in which he died, taking credit for defeating the Young Wolf. Tyrion mentions to his father that the northerners will never forget the way in which Robb and his forces were killed to which Tywin proudly boasts it as a reminder of what will happen if the north ever goes to war with the south again.
It is not until approximately three years after Robb's death that House Stark once again gains control of the north. Jon and Sansa, having rallied loyal northern houses and with Jon leading the now loyal Free Folk, battle Ramsay's forces during the Battle of the Bastards. With assistance from House Arryn later in the battle, Jon's army is victorious, Winterfell comes under Stark rule and Ramsay, Smalljon, and Harald Karstark are killed. Soon after, Jon is elected King in the North, having now become Robb's official successor and continues Robb's fight for northern freedom.
At the Twins, Arya avenges the deaths of Robb, Catelyn, and Talisa when she kills Walder Frey and all of the Frey men who held any importance within the House. At this point, all three men who conspired to murder Robb are each killed in a similar fashion to the way Robb and Catelyn died. Tywin is killed with a crossbow by his son Tyrion (Robb was injured by crossbow bolts), Roose is betrayed and stabbed in the heart by Ramsay (Roose betrayed and killed Robb this way), and Walder Frey's throat is slit by Arya (Catelyn's throat was slit by Walder's son).
Robb had a keen sense of honor and justice, which he received from his father. He was fair, caring, and willing to do anything to keep his family safe. He was close with his siblings, particularly his half-brother Jon, and shared mutually loving relationships with them all.  Robb also regarded his father's ward Theon to be like a brother to him. Unlike Roose Bolton, one of his central bannermen, Robb saw no reason for torture, cruelty, or unnecessary executions, and treated his prisoners of war well and justly. He did not wish for violence or war and did his best to limit the deaths and casualties on both sides. He also expended tremendous sympathies to innocent victims of war such as Martyn and Willem Lannister.
Robb had a surprisingly keen mind for warfare and strategy, a trait that takes Tywin completely by surprise. Tywin had originally seen Robb as a stupid child who hadn't the slightest idea of the violence of war and after his first taste of battle would "run back to Winterfell with his tail between his legs." The Lannisters were quite surprised when Robb led a stunning surprise attack in the Battle of the Whispering Wood to crush the western half of the Lannister armies under Jaime. Tywin also did not expect Robb to have the determination to send hundreds of his own men to their deaths in a feint to the east. Sansa mentions to Joffrey that Robb is known to fight with his army's vanguard and commands his forces where the fighting is thickest. As such, Robb's tactical prowess and bravery in battle results in the Northerners seeing Robb as a larger than life figure and he is quickly known as the "Young Wolf" for his ferocity in battle. Robb's actions create lore throughout the Seven Kingdoms that tell tales of him riding his direwolf into battle and even transforming into a wolf himself. Tywin mentions to his war counsel at Harrenhal that Robb's men worship him and that he doubts Robb will lose unless drastic measures are taken to ensure this.
Robb was also quit smart and clever. He was able to learn about the truth of Joffrey's lineage and quickly realized it was the reason his father was decapitated under false charges of treason and that his brother Bran was thrown from that tower to keep it in secret, meaning that he had discovered the incest between Jaime and Cersei. And all of this with very little information, having only a letter from Stannis Baratheon.
Robb was very much his father's son, but this meant that he had not only his father's strengths, but also his father's weaknesses. Like Eddard, Robb lacked proper political skills and had a tendency to put honor before reason. He married a political nobody out of love, needlessly spurning a badly needed political alliance with the Freys. Robb also put honor before pragmatic political needs when he executed Rickard for treason and murder, costing him the Karstark contingent from his army. Like most Northerners, Robb was more proficient as a warrior than as a politician. Much like his own father and the man he was named after, Robert Baratheon, Robb was an excellent warrior and military commander but a poor politician.
Roose Bolton viewed Robb as both arrogant and foolish, and Walder Frey considered Robb's title as the Young Wolf to be a show of pomposity. Despite this, Robb was overall viewed favorably as a good man. He was mourned profusely by Sansa, Jon and Theon once they heard the news. Even Tyrion Lannister commented to Sansa that Robb seemed like a good man to him. Others high lords and ladies such as Stannis, Olenna Tyrell, and Randyll Tarly viewed the way Robb was murdered to have been absolutely detestable.
* Only appears as a headless corpse
* Bran’s vision
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Robb is 14 years old when the story begins. He is his father's son, with a keen sense of honor and justice. Robb gets along with all his siblings and of them, he is closest to his half-brother Jon, who is the same age and with whom Robb shares a strong brotherly relationship, being raised together by their father. Robb is also close with his father's ward Theon, who is five years older than himself.
Robb is not a POV character in the novels, thus his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of POV characters, mainly Catelyn. Stories depicting Robb as a child are told in the POV chapters via the memories of Jon, Theon, Arya, Sansa, Bran, and Catelyn.
Robb is largely a background character in the second and third novels; important events in his life, including his successes at Oxcross, Ashemark, and the Crag, and his marriage, mostly occur off-screen, and are only revealed when POV characters (mostly Catelyn) learn of them or discuss them.
There are some minor differences from the books. He tells Bran that when Grey Wind tore off the Greatjon's fingers, he was very scared about the possible consequences but couldn't show it. Later, he accepts his mother's tactical advice while splitting his army in two, appointing the cautious, experienced Roose Bolton in command of the army tasked with delaying the Lannisters at the Green Fork.
Robb's appearance in the books is also different: he is described in the books as having the thick auburn hair of the Tullys, while on the show Robb has dark brown curly hair and a more lean build. Bran's hair color is also darker in the TV series. In the books, all of Eddard's children except Arya (and of course, Jon) inherited from their mother Catelyn the typical House Tully features of auburn hair and blue eyes. Talisa Maegyr does not exist in the novels.
Robb wins every battle, but fails at everything else, as he himself admits more than once, due to a series of unwise decisions: he loses his brothers, Winterfell, the North, his most important captive, a large number of troops at Duskendale and at the Ruby Ford (due to Roose Bolton's treachery), the Freys, the Karstarks - and also the Boltons, as he finds out too late. As a result, some people call him "The King Who Lost the North", though only Rickard Karstark uses that derogatory nickname to Robb's face.
Soon after the Battle of the Whispering Wood, Robb unwisely gives the riverlords leave to depart, each to defend his own lands, at Edmure's request. Later, Brynden explains Catelyn the folly in Robb's decision: scattering the riverlords simply made it easier for the Mountain to pillage their lands, and at the same time weakened Robb's host. In comparison with Robb's next mistakes, however, this has not been a serious one.
One of Robb's most serious mistakes is taking nearly all the armies of the North to the south, leaving the North scarcely defended - a very tempting target for the ironborn which they cannot resist. Sending Theon to the Iron Islands (against Catelyn's advice) is an additional mistake: the ironborn's invasion would have probably occurred in any case, as two facts strongly imply: the Iron Fleet is ready to sail when Theon arrives, and the frigid welcome he receives; however, Theon does what none of the other invaders would do - taking Winterfell, which is erroneous both strategically and logistically, as Asha (Yara's name in the books) explains him. Thus a chain of events is opened, and results in the Red Wedding.
Many disasters could have been prevented had Robb returned to the North as soon as he received reports about the ironborn's invasion: even if he had reached Winterfell too late to save his brothers, he'd still have had the Freys, Karstarks and Boltons on his side, wouldn't have met Jeyne Westerling, and the Red Wedding would have never occurred. In such a scenario, Robb might have lost all the lands he conquered and eventually found himself caught between the Lannisters and ironborn, but still it would have been much better position than how things turned to be.
Robb, however, is so absorbed in his vendetta against the Lannisters that he turns a deaf ear to the reports about the invasion, indifferent to the suffering of the common folk whose villages are ravaged by the ironborn. Even when he receives reports about the Fall of Winterfell, he does not send even one soldier back (unlike in the show, Roose Bolton never suggests to Robb to send Ramsay, and the "liberation" of Winterfell is performed without Robb's knowledge or consent), because, as he explains to Catelyn, he foolishly trusted Theon to act rationally and spare his brothers - and was indifferent about the safety of the servants with whom he lived for years. This is his third serious mistake in a row, which, combined with the aforementioned two former mistakes, seal his fate.
In the beginning of A Storm of Swords, Robb still intends to continue fighting against the Lannisters, but Catelyn tells him bluntly "So long as Theon Greyjoy sits in your father's seat with your brothers' blood on his hands, these other foes must wait. Your first duty is to defend your own people, win back Winterfell, and hang Theon in a crow's cage to die slowly. Or else put off that crown for good, Robb, for men will know that you are no true king at all." For a change, Robb listens to his mother and finally decides to return home and fight off the ironborn invaders; unfortunately, at that point it is too late.
The woman Robb marries is Jeyne Westerling, a noblewoman of House Westerling, an ancient but impoverished vassal house of the Lannisters in the Westerlands. Robb is wounded while storming the Westerlings' ancestral castle, the Crag, and Jeyne nurses him back to health. She comforts Robb when he is grief-stricken by the (false) reports of the deaths of Bran and Rickon, and they sleep together. Having taken her maidenhood, Robb feels honor bound to marry her, despite his previous oath to marry a daughter of Walder Frey. The fallout from the marriage is much the same as his marriage to Talisa in the TV series, although Jeyne is not present at the Red Wedding and is still alive. Jaime Lannister later reflects that Jeyne was "not a beauty to lose a kingdom for." In retrospect, it is revealed the Westerlings - at least Jeyne's mother and uncle - have collaborated with Tywin to make Robb breach his pact with the Freys, thus caused the Freys to switch sides. It is unclear how far was Jeyne involved in the scheme.
The way Robb reacts when he learns that his mother helped Jaime escape is the opposite of the show: rather than punish or at least chide her, he gives a speech about love and forgiveness in presence of his bannermen, including Rickard Karstark. That speech, and the fact that Catelyn was not given even the slightest punishment, increase Rickard's rage about Jaime's escape to the point that he kills Willem Lannister and his cousin Tion Frey (the latter was replaced with Martyn Lannister in the show). Robb decides to execute Rickard, stating that Rickard has tainted Robb's honor by killing the boys, and that he owes their fathers justice; the decision costs Robb the Karstark troops, and worsens his already weak position.
After he is told that Lysa will not send him any reinforcements, or at least open the Bloody Gate for the Stark troops, Robb is filled with despair. He curses "The Others can take her, then. Bloody Rickard Karstark as well. And Theon Greyjoy, Walder Frey, Tywin Lannister, and all the rest of them. Gods be good, why would any man ever want to be king? When everyone was shouting King in the North, King in the North, I told myself... swore to myself... that I would be a good king, as honorable as Father, strong, just, loyal to my friends and brave when I faced my enemies... now I can't even tell one from the other. How did it all get so confused? Lord Rickard's fought at my side in half a dozen battles. His sons died for me in the Whispering Wood. Tion Frey and Willem Lannister were my enemies. Yet now I have to kill my dead friends' father for their sakes. Will the Lannisters thank me for Lord Rickard's head? Will the Freys?."
Before going to the Twins, Robb issues a royal decree, by which he legitimizes Jon and names him his successor (despite Catelyn's objection). The decree is not mentioned afterward. It is speculated by fans that Robb has given it to Maege Mormont and Galbart Glover, whom he sent on a mission to the North, and it is unknown what has become of them. So far in the books, Jon has not received the decree and has no idea about it.
During the War of the Five Kings, Robb also begins to wear a bronze and iron crown just like his ancestors, the Kings of Winter. After his death, Ryman Frey gave that crown to a whore who accompanied him during the siege of Riverrun. Jaime notices it, and is filled with rage to see how the Freys continue making fun of Robb long after his death, although Robb was an enemy of his house. Later, Ryman is killed by the Brotherhood Without Banners and the crown is given to their new leader who replaced Beric - the monstrous Lady Stoneheart, formerly Robb's mother.
Robb's last words are slightly different in the novels. In both versions, he has been shot with several arrows already and is struggling to remain conscious, but somehow manages to find the strength to stagger to his feet. Catelyn calls to him to flee, and his last words are "Mother... Grey Wind..." - because they can hear his direwolf howling outside the castle as the Freys attack him with hunting dogs (resulting in a bloody fight that only ends when they shoot the wolf with crossbows).
Roose Bolton then stabs Robb through the heart, finishing him off, saying, "Jaime Lannister sends his regards." The TV series slightly changes this to, "The Lannisters send their regards," for fear that some viewers would be confused that Jaime was somehow involved with planning the massacre, which he was not (even the cast and crew on set were getting confused by the original line).
Robb's last spoken words are later echoed by his "bastard half-brother" Jon's last words while being stabbed in the Mutiny at Castle Black (which happened at the end of Season 5 in the TV series). Jon's last utterance as he fades out of consciousness at the end of the fifth novel is actually "Ghost" - both brothers called to their direwolves as they were dying. The TV series simply omitted this. There is a fan speculation that Robb and Jon, in their last breath, managed to warg into their respective direwolves. It did not do any good for Robb, since Grey Wind was killed shortly after him; it is not the case with Jon, whose direwolf was not around when he was stabbed - he might have survived.
In the books, Robb is the third of the titular leaders in the War of the Five Kings to die (in the show - the second), following Balon Greyjoy.
Stannis tells Catelyn that in his eyes - Robb is a traitor like Renly. Yet, when Stannis and Melisandre perform the leech ritual, Stannis hesitates a bit before saying Robb's name. Robb is the second to die of the three "usurpers" (in the show - the first), following Balon Greyjoy.
Since Robb was not involved in the conflict between Stannis and the Lannisters, his death (whether or not was affected by the leech ritual) did not get Stannis any closer to the Iron Throne. However, since Stannis is still alive in the books and has obtained the support of the Mormonts and other Northern houses, it can be argued that Robb's death assisted Stannis indirectly: his death has left a void, and the people of the North wished to settle the score with their oppressors, but needed someone to rally them; by liberating Deepwood Motte, Stannis has proven himself capable for that task.
The direwolf head is Robb's personal sigil, and not the sigil of House Stark (a running direwolf).
Harwin Strong holds his secret bastard son, Joffrey Velaryon.
The term bastard refers to anyone born out of wedlock. All major religions in the Seven Kingdoms - the Faith of the Seven, followers of the Old Gods of the Forest, and followers of the Drowned God - attach very negative social stigmas to bastardy.
Ramsay Snow, a bastard of House Bolton.
Bastards are not allowed to inherit their father's lands or titles, and have no claims to the privileges of their father's house. It is up to their father, if he knows they exist, on how to raise or treat them. At worst, they are unacknowledged and ignored by their father and left completely in the hands of their mothers. Some may fare better and be discreetly sent funds to ensure their well-being. At best, a lord will acknowledge his bastard children (allowing them to take on one of the special bastard surnames), but send them away to one of his distant castles to be raised away from his lawful family. For bastard children to be raised by their father in his own castle alongside his trueborn children - such as Eddard Stark did for his "bastard son", Jon Snow - is considered extremely unusual.
Faced with very low expectations for inheritance, many noble-born bastard sons, even acknowledged ones, voluntarily join the Night's Watch to seek prestige and equality. The Night's Watch is highly egalitarian compared to the rest of Westeros, and at the Wall every man is given what he earns. Both bastards, alongside other recruits, can become high-ranking officers and commanders for their service, although noble-born bastard sons of lords are favored for advancement over bastard sons with no noble blood. Bastards may also take up the life of knighthood in the hope of being granted a place in a lord's household, or even gaining lands and titles for services to their liege lords. In this way, a bastard may become the founder of a noble house. Bastard children may also be given over to the Faith of the Seven as acolytes, to join monastic orders or the clergy, and bastard sons may be sent to train as maesters. Because the Order of Maesters is all-male, bastard daughters face limited prospects outside of the clergy or a good marriage.
There is no outright law punishing noble men or women for having bastard children. Instead it is considered a social and religious disgrace.
In any event, since a highborn bastard carries the blood of a noble house, rival claimants may still consider them a potential threat. For this reason, King Joffrey orders the massacre of Robert's bastards because they are his true children and thus stronger claimants to the throne than he is. When Roose Bolton and Ramsay Snow discuss their search for the remaining male Stark children, Ramsay suggests that they get rid of Jon Snow, reasoning that since he is Eddard Stark's bastard son, Jon could become a threat to their rule in the North, even though he has joined the Night's Watch and given up any possible future claim.
It is possible for the king to legitimize a lord's bastard children, but this special dispensation is difficult to acquire and does not happen frequently. It will usually be granted only if a lord has no legitimate children (or at least no male children) to carry on the name of his House. However, the social stigma is not automatically removed after the bastard is formally legitimized. Ramsay Snow is a case in point; even after he had been legitimized as Ramsay Bolton, his future was still uncertain. Since Roose Bolton's trueborn child by Walda Bolton was a boy, as they had expected, he may have had a stronger claim to the Bolton lands and titles, something that Sansa Stark openly noted. Although Roose Bolton said that Ramsay always would be his firstborn, Ramsay still stabbed him to death afterward and fed his brother and Walda to the hounds, out of fear that his inheritance would fall to his trueborn brother once he reached the rightful age to claim their father's lands and titles.
Ellaria Sand, a bastard of House Uller.
Due to its unique history and culture, bastards in Dorne are not looked down upon the way they are in the rest of the Seven Kingdoms. Many present-day Dornishmen are descended from the Rhoynar people who migrated to Westeros a thousand years ago, and who possessed an urban culture based around city-states along the Rhoyne River in Essos. The culture they passed down to the present-day Dornishmen has relatively relaxed attitudes towards sexual matters. While the Rhoynar who came to Dorne did convert to the Faith of the Seven, they basically just ignored the rules they didn't like, and follow the religion much less strictly than other parts of Westeros (though they are no less devout regarding the rules they do follow). Many Dornish nobles have formalized lovers known as paramours, and they do not possess the same stigma against homosexual behavior that the rest of Westeros does.
Three of the Sand Snakes: Oberyn Martell's eight bastard daughters.
These relaxed sexual mores in Dorne extend to bastard children. The Dornish feel that bastards are born of passion and love - unlike the rest of the Seven Kingdoms who consider them born of lies and deceit - and thus would not disdain a child for such a parentage. While it is rare and scandalous for a lord from outside of Dorne to raise his bastard child in his home castle alongside his trueborn children (as Eddard Stark did with Jon Snow), it is actually commonplace in Dorne to see bastards living at the court of their noble parents; Oberyn Martell raised his eight illegitimate daughters in Sunspear, alongside his brother's trueborn children. The Dornish are also much more likely to acknowledge bastard children in the first place. They would consider it cruel for a lord to abandon his own flesh and blood, as King Robert Baratheon ignored the many bastard children he fathered over the years. Because Dornish culture holds little if any stigma against bastards, it is not unusual to see bastards work their way up to important social or court positions there, holding castles or leading armies for their families.
Bastards in Dorne still face a few restrictions, but these are relatively minor compared to the rest of the Seven Kingdoms. Bastards in Dorne must still use a special bastard surname - in this case, "Sand" - and they are less likely to inherit from their parents. While Jon Snow was roughly the same age as his father's eldest trueborn son, Robb Stark, he was still shooed outside during the great feast at Winterfell, rather than potentially offend King Robert and Queen Cersei by seating a bastard at the main table. The Dornish, in contrast, feel that an older bastard does have a place within the family and is not shameful. A bastard child is also treated somewhat like a younger child in order of inheritance. For example, if the Starks lived in Dorne, Jon Snow would be treated as a younger brother, behind even Rickon in the line of succession, but otherwise, he would be treated as a full member of the family.
Another minor stigma against bastards in Dorne is that they are not considered ideal marriage prospects. Essentially, it would be considered beneath one's station for a powerful lord to marry a noble-born bastard. In many cases, this is simply due to the practical reason that a bastard is less likely to inherit, and thus the marriage would probably not bring with it any new wealth or lands. This stigma is somewhat similar to a nobleman marrying a daughter from another House who was trueborn, but who was also the youngest of five daughters, and thus a very poor match. Ellaria Sand is an acknowledged bastard of House Uller, one of the more powerful noble families in Dorne. Even in the relaxed social mores of Dorne, however, it would still have been beneath his station for Prince Oberyn Martell, younger brother of the ruler of Dorne, to wed Ellaria. While Oberyn could not marry Ellaria, he simply made her his formal paramour, his wife in all but name.
Acknowledged bastards are not legally permitted to officially carry the heraldry of their noble parent's House. They may unofficially carry a flag displaying the heraldry on the battlefield, or use weapons and equipment that display its heraldic symbol, but only as much as any common footsoldier in their noble parent's army may do so. If an acknowledged noble-born bastard began openly wearing capes and armor displaying the heraldry of his noble parent's House, and using banners displaying the heraldry at formal social functions, it would be falsely presenting themselves as a trueborn child and not a bastard. He would face legal troubles and punishment.
House Targaryen's sigil is a red dragon on a black field.
House Blackfyre, founded by a legitimized bastard son of House Targaryen, follows the custom for bastards by inverting the Targaryen colors, resulting in a black dragon on a red field.
Before he joined the Night's Watch and forsook all family ties, Jon Snow was forbidden from officially "carrying" and displaying the Stark heraldry of a grey direwolf on a white field. One of House Stark's bannermen such as Ser Rodrik Cassel might physically hold a flag displaying the Stark heraldry, or even a common Stark footman might carry such a flag, and thus Jon may have carried weapons or equipment featuring the Stark direwolf design motif. Jon would not have been allowed to use the Stark heraldry as a representation of himself, because this would be essentially making the false claim that he was a legitimized child who no longer bore the shame of his bastardy.
Noble-born bastards are in a legal state between fullborn nobles and smallfolk, however, and unlike the smallfolk, acknowledged bastards are allowed to use their own heraldry - just not the heraldry of their noble parent's House. A very common custom in Westeros is for bastards to use the heraldry of their noble-born parent's House but with the colors inverted (which is known as "breaking" the design scheme). While both the books and TV series never portrayed Jon Snow as using any kind of heraldry, if he followed this custom his personal sigil would have been a white direwolf on a grey field, the reverse of the Stark colors. Thus the discovery of the six direwolf pups by Ned Stark and his sons is all the more considered a sign from the Old Gods. Not only were there two female and four male pups (to match the Stark children), but the sixth was an albino - physically resembling the white direwolf design that Jon would use in heraldry as a bastard son. This is further signified in the season 6 finale, when Lord Wyman Manderly dubs Jon the "white wolf" upon his election as the new King in the North. Another example is shown in the Season 7 episode "Eastwatch", when Gendry is found by Davos; the boy, now aware of his true identity as King Robert's bastard, presents to the man his personal weapon: a black warhammer with a golden stag engraved on it - the exact reverse of the normal Baratheon heraldry.
One of the more infamous examples of bastard heraldry is House Blackfyre, a cadet branch of House Targaryen founded over a century before the War of the Five Kings. Prince Daemon, the founder of the House, was a bastard son of King Aegon IV who was legitimized by his father, and he took the name Blackfyre after the Valyrian steel sword originally carried by his ancestor Aegon the Conqueror. Following the custom for bastards, Daemon inverted the color scheme of the Targaryen heraldry, so instead of the normal red three-headed dragon on a black background, House Blackfyre's heraldry consisted of a black three-headed dragon on a red background.
There is no marriage in Naath so the concept of bastardy is unfamiliar to its people. Missandei, who comes from Naath, is confused when she asks Davos Seaworth about Jon Snow's name and parentage.
Bastard names by region.
The stigma of illegitimacy is so great that all acknowledged bastards born to a noble in Westeros have to identify themselves through a specific surname marking them as a bastard, which varies by region:
However, this system does not apply to the bastards of smallfolk. At least one parent (usually, but not always, the father) has to be a member of a noble house. The low-born commoners of Westeros do not normally use surnames at all. Therefore, possessing a bastard surname is simultaneously a mark of distinction and badge of shame. Anyone who encounters someone with a bastard surname will immediately know that they are not simply a bastard, but the bastard child of a noble.
Gendry Baratheon, as an unacknowledged bastard of Robert Baratheon, could not use the surname "Waters" before his legitimization.
Bastards only use the special surnames if they have been openly acknowledged by their noble-born parent. In such cases, their noble parent will usually try to make sure that they are well cared for, or send money for their support, but it is extremely unusual for a noble to raise their bastard child in their own household.
There is no official distinction between bastards who have one noble-born parent, and those whose parents are both noble-born. In practice, however, a nobleman would be much more likely to acknowledge a bastard child born to a noble lady than he would a child born to a commoner.
Bastard surnames are dependent on the region a child was born in, i.e. where the mother is from, not where the father is from. For example, a noble lord from the Stormlands could father one bastard child in the Vale, and another in the Riverlands, but neither would use the surname "Storm": the first bastard would use the surname "Stone", and the second would use the surname "Rivers." It is extremely unusual for a bastard to know who his nobleman father is, but not his mother. Therefore Jon Snow's situation is additionally unusual, not just because he actually lives with his nobleman "father", but because he wasn't even born in the North. Eddard Stark brought him back to Winterfell as an infant after fighting in the south during Robert's Rebellion, but refused to say who his mother was or where she came from. As a result of the mystery surrounding his mother's identity, Jon ended up using the surname "Snow" by default.
Bastard children of a noble may be politely referred to as "natural children", though the less polite term "baseborn" is more commonly used, and they are often (bluntly and rudely) simply referred to as "bastard." In contrast, a noble lord's children with his lawfully married wife are termed "trueborn". Thus when Lord Eddard Stark discovers that none of Cersei Lannister's children were fathered by her husband King Robert Baratheon, he says that King Robert "has no trueborn sons," even though he knows that Robert has several "baseborn," bastard children.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the status of being a bastard is a considerable social disgrace amongst the nobility, though less so amongst the smallfolk and in Dorne. However, while bastards are disadvantaged, they still have means to climb the social ladder. They may win honor and glory in battle and be knighted. If they do great deeds in service to the king or a noble lord, they can even receive a bill of legitimacy, allowing them to take their father's surname and formally join his House, or to take a new surname and found a new House (some bastards take new names altogether, like "Blackfyre", while others add a prefix to their bastard name, such as "Longwaters"). For example, House Baratheon was founded by the legitimized bastard half-brother of Aegon the Conqueror. Also, bastards can get positions within the Small Council, such as Master of Ships or even Hand of the King.
However, while bastards stand outside the lines of succession and inheritance, there are still exceptions which have caused immense problems. King Aegon IV Targaryen legitimized three of his bastard sons and one of his bastard daughters on his deathbed. His eldest bastard son, Daemon I Blackfyre, later claimed the Iron Throne and led a bloody civil war known as the First Blackfyre Rebellion. His sons and descendants launched four more attempts to take the Iron Throne before their final claimant, Maelys the Monstrous, was slain by Ser Barristan Selmy during the War of the Ninepenny Kings. This is sometimes used as an example of what happens if a bastard is treated too well and given too much power and legitimacy.
There is no official distinction between bastards who have one noble-born parent, and those whose parents are both noble-born. In practice, however, a nobleman would be much more likely to acknowledge a bastard child born to a noble lady, than he would a child born to a commoner. For example, while Robert Baratheon is rumored to have fathered over a dozen bastard children, the only one who he acknowledged in the books was Edric Storm, because his mother was a noblewoman, Delena of House Florent - the younger first cousin of Selyse Florent, the wife of Robert's younger brother Stannis.
It is unclear how the system of special bastard surnames developed in Westeros. Since at least the unification of the Seven Kingdoms during the Targaryen Conquest (three centuries before the narrative begins), the use and implementation of the bastard surnames has been quite uniform: there is one bastard surname used for each of the nine regions in the realm (the original "Seven Kingdoms", plus the borderlands that became the Riverlands, and the new region of the Crownlands that the Targaryens carved out around their new capital city, King's Landing). Before that, it is unclear if they were introduced by the First Men who migrated to Westeros 12,000 years ago, or by the Andals who migrated to Westeros 6,000 years ago, or if they simply originated on their own in Westeros itself at a later date.
Westeros was not always divided into these "Seven Kingdoms" however, and after the Andal invasion the continent was still divided into dozens of petty kingdoms, which only unified into seven larger kingdoms within the past two thousand years or so. Dorne was the last of the kingdoms to be unified, only about one thousand years ago. When Highgarden and Oldtown were both at the center of rival and independent kingdoms, before they were united in the "Kingdom of the Reach", it isn't clear if they even used the same bastard surnames.
Moreover, the Riverlands were a border zone always contested between its powerful neighbors - when the Riverlands were conquered and held by the Stormlands for three full centuries, did bastards born there use the special surname "Rivers" or "Storm"? When the ironborn conquered the Riverlands from the Stormlands and held it for three generations, did Riverlands bastards start using the surname "Pyke"? For that matter, House Greyjoy of Pyke only became the ruling family of the Iron Islands after the Targaryen Conquest exterminated House Hoare, whose seat was on Orkmont island - what surname did ironborn bastards use before that? While the other kingdoms gradually coalesced over centuries, the Targaryens created the Crownlands all at once, implying that at some point they had to make a formal decree creating the new surname "Waters" for bastards from the region. The answers to these questions are unknown.
The bastard surnames are used by nobles belonging to every religious or cultural group, from Oldtown to the North, and the Iron Islands to Dorne. Dorne itself does not considered bastardy to be shameful, and its cultural also has paramours - official mistresses/concubines, such as Ellaria Sand. Still, Dorne also uses the bastard surnames. The ironborn also practice a limited form of polygamy - they can have only one "rock wife", but can take multiple "salt wives" - captives taken as formal concubines. The children of salt wives are not considered to be bastards, though they rank behind the children of a lord's rock wife in the line of succession.
Bastards need to be acknowledged by a noble-born parent in order to use the special bastard surnames. The only known exception to this rule in the books is Mya, the eldest of Robert's bastards: she is commonly known as "Mya Stone" although she has never been officially acknowledged by Robert. He actually did spend some time with her when he was living in the Vale and she was a toddler, and apparently this gave him a fondness for her that he didn't have for his numerous other bastard children: at some point during his reign Robert openly expressed interest in bringing her to live at court in King's Landing, probably to formally acknowledge her as well. Nothing came of this, however, because Cersei bluntly implied that she would have the girl killed if she came to the capital city. Thus it is possible that Mya Stone uses the bastard surname because Robert wanted to acknowledge her, and her status as his daughter was an open secret.
Fans sometimes derisively assume that "Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen Baratheon" should really be called by the Lannister surname because of their status as the bastard offspring of the incestuous relationship between Cersei Lannister and Jaime Lannister, and not the sons and daughter of King Robert Baratheon at all. This is actually an error, as according to the customs of bastardy, Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen don't even have the right to use the surname "Lannister". As Jaime's bastard children, given birth to by a woman from the Westerlands (Cersei), the three would have to use the bastard surname for the Westerlands: "Hill". There's also the possibility that he might use "Waters" given that both Jaime and Cersei had been living in the Crownlands for many years, and the three have lived their whole lives there. All of this, of course, would only happen if Jaime were to openly acknowledge Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen as his children, which is an impossibility given the disastrous political fallout this would create. Further, as the product of not merely bastardy, but incest, the Faith of the Seven would want to outright kill them as abominations before the gods if their actual parentage was ever revealed. Given these factors, Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen are entitled to no surname; the legal status of a baseborn commoner.
Marriage in the real-life Middle Ages was primarily focused on producing "legitimate" children - i.e. children confirmed to have been born only to the married man and woman during their marriage. Yet the status of children produced outside of marriage varied quite widely across time and place. Before the  Gregorian Reform in the eleventh century, concubines often had semi-official or even official status and rights, as did their children. It was only starting in the eleventh century that the Christian Church began to stress that only children produced from the marriage of one man to one woman were legitimate, and any produced outside of that marriage were "illegitimate". Before that time, not nearly as much stigma was applied to bastardy.
However, it took time for this new definition of marriage - and the notion that children born outside of it were shameful "bastards" - to take full effect. William the Conqueror, who became King of England in 1066, was - by some definitions - a bastard son of Robert, the Duke of Normandy. The Normans were actually descended from Scandinavians who settled in northern France (i.e. Vikings). These ancestors had practiced polygamous marriages and relationships in the past, and some of their Norman descendants continued to keep concubines. While these concubines were no longer considered to be fully "married" to the man, their children were usually considered just as legitimate as children produced within marriage. Robert recognized William as his heir, and by Norman standards of the time, William was not considered illegitimate. Conversely, English standards of the same period were not as accommodating; the local Anglo-Saxon population initially labeled William as William the Bastard, not the Conqueror. William's son King Henry I of England (1069-1135) had six publicly known concubines and at least twenty acknowledged children by them. Clearly at that point in time, the Church had yet to fully impress upon the general populace the new value that "bastardy" was shameful, to the point that a King of England openly had many bastard children, and even gave them lands and titles. As the 1100's progressed, however, this new definition of bastardy as something shameful was becoming generally accepted: In Henry I's case, his only legitimate child upon his death was his daughter, Matilda. Even though Henry had officially declared Matilda his successor, and taken significant steps to secure his nobles' allegiance to her, many reneged on their oaths following Henry's death. Matilda's attempts to claim the English throne was to throw the country into almost 20 years of civil war, a period known as The Anarchy (and which directly inspired George R.R. Martin to write the Dance of the Dragons in Westerosi history). At the same time, however, it was never suggested that any of King Henry's illegitimate sons should take up the throne as his father William the Conqueror had done, demonstrating that changing views of bastardy were already taking effect.
In subsequent centuries, ecclesiastical law in most of Western Europe dictated that a bastard child who had been born to two unmarried parents was automatically legitimized if the parents subsequently married. Under English Common Law, however, a bastard could only receive legitimization by being issued letters patent requested from the king. For example, John of Gaunt asked and received a legitimization decree from King Richard II for his children by Katharine Swynford - his sons had been born out of wedlock but he later married Katharine as his third wife. His originally bastard son was the ancestor of Henry VII, founder of the Tudor dynasty. Martin has said that the A Song of Ice and Fire series is loosely inspired by the War of the Roses in England during the 1400s, between the Yorks and Lancasters (paralleled by the Starks and Lannisters in Westeros). During the War of the Roses, the Yorkist faction overthrew the last Lancastrian king Henry VI - but years later the Yorkists were ultimately defeated in a rebellion led by Henry VII, who descended from one of John of Gaunt's bastard sons (i.e., the Lannisters seize power over the Baratheons and their Stark allies when King Robert dies, but King Robert left behind a bastard son, Gendry...)
In the core regions of the Seven Kingdoms, standards about bastardy are more similar to late Medieval Europe: bastards are considered "illegitimate", a shameful reminder of sins of the flesh, and they cannot inherit lands and titles from their parent. Standards about bastards in Dorne are closer to how bastard children were treated in the early Middle Ages. The system of special bastard surnames used in Westeros are a fictional invention of George R.R. Martin for his fantasy world, and does not reflect real-life practices.
Additional actors when Arya is disguised:Hattie Gotobed (Ghita)Sabrina Bartlett (serving girl)David Bradley (Walder Frey)
Princess Arya Stark is the third child and second daughter of Lord Eddard Stark and his wife, Lady Catelyn Stark. She is the sister of the incumbent Westerosi monarchs, Sansa, Queen in the North, and Brandon, King of the Andals and the First Men.
After narrowly escaping the persecution of House Stark by House Lannister, Arya is trained as a Faceless Man at the House of Black and White in Braavos, using her abilities to avenge her family. Upon her return to Westeros, she exacts retribution for the Red Wedding by exterminating the Frey male line.
Returning to Winterfell, Arya initially finds herself at odds with Sansa due to the naïvety of her youth and perceived lack of support for their "half-brother", Jon Snow, King in the North. However, their tumultuous relationship is discovered to be the result of Petyr Baelish's manipulation, and the two mend their sisterhood following his execution for his crimes against House Stark.
Arya then plays a significant role in the Great War, effectively ending the conflict through her killing of the Night King during the Battle of Winterfell. Afterwards, Arya rides south with Sandor Clegane to kill Cersei Lannister, not intent on returning to Winterfell. She arrives at King's Landing as it is being destroyed by Daenerys Targaryen. Sandor convinces Arya to abandon her quest for vengeance and Arya tries to help the smallfolk survive the destruction of King's Landing, though she fails. Weeks later, following Daenerys's assassination to stop her further destruction, Arya is part of the great council that decides the future of Westeros, during which Arya's younger brother Bran is chosen as king. After bidding farewell to her siblings, Arya decides to leave Westeros and sail west to discover what lies beyond where the maps of the known world end.
Arya Stark is the youngest daughter and third child of Lady Catelyn and Lord Ned Stark.
Arya was born and raised at Winterfell. She has an older sister, Sansa, an older brother Robb, two younger brothers Bran and Rickon Stark, and a "bastard half-brother" Jon Snow.
Arya rejects the notion that she must become a lady and marry for influence and power. Instead, she believes that she can forge her own destiny. She is fascinated by warfare and training in the use of arms, and is bored by embroidery and other "lady-like" pursuits. She takes after her father and has a quarrelsome relationship with her sister Sansa, due to their contrasting interests and personalities. She is close to her "half-brother" Jon, who is also something of an outsider.
Arya is being taught how to sew by Septa Mordane, but finds the exercise tedious and difficult, in contrast to her sister Sansa, whose stitching is praised by Septa Mordane. She looks on enviously as her brothers Bran, Jon, and Robb practice archery in the courtyard with their father. She grabs a bow and annoys Bran by out-shooting him. Robb and Jon are impressed while Bran chases Arya as their family laughs at their antics.
Arya and her family await the Baratheon entourage.
On King Robert's visit to Winterfell, Arya rushes out to see the arrival of his entourage. She is scolded when she finally joins the receiving line in the courtyard. Arya is overheard by Queen Cersei when she asks Sansa where the "Imp" is, a reference to Tyrion. Later that evening at the feast, she tests her mother's patience by misbehaving and throwing food at her sister, prompting Robb to send her to bed early. Robert names Arya's father as his Hand of the King, Joffrey is betrothed to Sansa, and Eddard decides to take his daughters with him to King's Landing to experience the court. Before leaving, Arya receives a pet direwolf, one of several pups found by her brothers outside the castle, and names her Nymeria, after a great warrior-queen of Essos. She also receives a sword as a gift from Jon. She names it Needle, as a play on words that she may now enjoy doing "needlework."
Arya says goodbye to Nymeria.
While journeying south on the Kingsroad, she practices her swordplay with Mycah, the son of the butcher in the King's retinue whom she befriends. When Sansa and Joffrey spot them fighting, Joffrey intervenes. He accuses Mycah of pretending to be a knight and threatens him for striking Arya. Ignoring their protests, he cuts Mycah and threatens Arya when she attacks him to defend Mycah. As Joffrey menaces her with a sword, Nymeria savages Joffrey, injuring his arm, allowing Mycah to flee and Arya to throw Joffrey's sword in the river. Arya runs away and drives Nymeria off with rocks so that she won't be punished.
Arya and her father at the Inn at the Crossroads.
Arya is eventually found and questioned. Arya is truthful but Sansa lies about the incident, saying she didn't see what happened, but generally supporting Joffrey. This infuriates Arya, who proceeds to strike her sister and call her a liar. Queen Cersei, as they do not have Arya's wolf Nymeria, the one who actually bit Joffrey, spitefully requests that Sansa's direwolf Lady be executed instead. Despite the fact that she had just struck Sansa for lying to save her budding friendship with Joffrey, Arya quickly joins her sister in vehemently protesting against killing Lady. She even reaches out to touch Sansa in sympathy as she breaks down into tears upon seeing that the queen's order will be carried out nonetheless. Meanwhile, Mycah is murdered by Joffrey's bodyguard, the Hound.
Syrio is hired to teach Arya the ways of a water dancer.
After reaching King's Landing, Arya argues incessantly with Sansa over the incident, to her father's despair. Eddard tries to make Arya understand that Sansa could not contradict her future husband. Arya is disgusted that Eddard thinks such an excuse is acceptable and questions why he would betroth Sansa to someone like Joffrey. Eddard discovers Needle when he comes to Arya's room to talk to her while she is practicing. When he realizes she is serious about learning, he hires Syrio Forel, a master sword-fighter who was formerly the First Sword of Braavos, to train Arya in the art of combat. Eddard is bemused to find that Syrio's training regime includes having Arya balance on her tiptoes for hours at a time and chasing cats around their new residence in the Red Keep to learn agility. Arya and her father discuss how Bran cannot be a knight now that he is paralyzed below the waist, but he can be lord of a holdfast, or sit on the King's council. When Arya asks if she can as well, Eddard laughs and says that someday she will marry a powerful lord and have children who can be lords or even king and rule the land. Arya replies that is not her destiny: "That's not me".
Arya and Sansa meet Littlefinger.
Arya watches the Hand's tournament along with Septa Mordane and Sansa. She asks Littlefinger how he got his nickname, to his amusement. Arya later resumes her cat-chasing training exercise and finds her way into the dungeons under the Red Keep, where she sees the dragon skulls that used to decorate the Great Hall of the Iron Throne.
Arya happens upon dragon skulls.
She overhears Varys and Illyrio Mopatis plotting about the likelihood of future war between the Starks and Lannisters and the possible timing of Khal Drogo bringing his army across the Narrow Sea with the Targaryen exiles. Following them, Arya finds a passage out of the castle and then must confront and threaten the castle guards in order to get back in. Her father is angry, as he has had people looking for her. She tries to tell him about the conspirators she overheard, but cannot identify them and has forgotten most of the details, other than "the wolf and the lion" (the Starks and Lannisters) fighting each other. Eddard introduces her as his daughter to Yoren, a recruiter for the Night's Watch. Disheveled and unclean, Arya is at first mistaken by him as a boy, to her annoyance.
Arya is distracted from her training exercises by news of Jory's death and her father's injury while fighting Jaime. Syrio teaches her how to ignore her troubles to focus on fighting. Later, Eddard brings his daughters together to tell them he is sending them back to Winterfell. Sansa and Arya are both upset. Arya does not want to leave Syrio's training. Sansa is incensed, feeling that losing a dancing instructor is nothing compared to breaking her betrothal to Joffrey. Eddard says not to worry, he will choose another man for her to marry, one strong and gentle and brave. Sansa says she doesn't want someone like that; she wants Joffrey (to Arya's amusement). She wants to have his blonde babies, like Joffrey her "golden-haired lion." After the interjection "Seven hells", Arya asserts that he will be a stag like his father. Sansa replies that Joffrey is nothing like Robert. This prompts Eddard's sudden realization that Joffrey is not Robert's son and thus not the heir to the throne.
Eddard confronts Cersei, who admits that her children were fathered by her brother Jaime. However, before Eddard can inform Robert, the King is mortally wounded by a boar while hunting and dies shortly afterwards. Cersei and Joffrey have Eddard arrested and send guards to take Arya into custody while she is training with Syrio. He realizes that Eddard would not send Lannister men for his daughter, and instructs Arya to flee while he faces down the guards himself. Armed only with a wooden sword, he disarms several of them and holds off one of the Kingsguard, Ser Meryn Trant. Syrio's fate after that is unknown. Arya goes first to the stable, where the men who were to take her and Sansa out of King's Landing were waiting with the baggage. The men have been killed, but she finds her sword, Needle, where she hid it in the bottom of her luggage. She is discovered by a stableboy who tries to stop her. As he comes at her, she raises her sword, and he is impaled and dies. Horrified, Arya runs away to find her way out of the castle. As a result of subsequent events, war breaks out between the forces of House Lannister and the forces loyal to House Stark, now under the leadership of Robb.
Arya during her father's execution.
Arya lives on the streets of King's Landing, catching wild birds to feed herself. While trying to bargain for something to eat at a baker's stand, Arya notices crowds of people running to the city's center. She discovers that they are assembling to witness the trial of the Hand of the King. Dropping the pigeon she holds, Arya runs to the crowded square, and, to get a better view and see her father, she climbs on the pedestal of a statue of former Targaryen king Baelor (for whom the Sept is named). Eddard is brought out and pulled through the crowd. He spots Arya, and then, as he is taken past Yoren, the Night's Watch recruiter, he manages to signal in Arya's direction saying "Baelor", hoping that Yoren can find Arya and take her to safety. As previously agreed with Joffrey and Cersei, Eddard confesses to treason, but instead of granting mercy, Joffrey reneges and orders his execution. Arya dashes forward, drawing her sword in an attempt to save her father. Yoren manages to grab her. Holding Arya against his chest, he tells her not to look. Before he is executed, Eddard looks to the statue of Baelor and sees that Arya is gone. Arya looks up at the sky. Upon seeing the frightened birds taking flight from the cheer of the crowd, Arya knows that her father is dead.
Arya defends herself with Needle.
Yoren cuts her hair to make her look more like a boy and vows to get her to the Wall to reunite with Jon. She will pose as a fresh recruit for the Night's Watch. He tells her not to trust the others, as they could turn her in for a reward or possibly rape her, or both. When Arya joins the group, she is bullied by two boys, Hot Pie and Lommy Greenhands, but she defends herself and scares them off with Needle. Gendry, another recruit, also steps up to defend her. The entire group departs King's Landing, facing a journey of hundreds of miles through a war zone in order to get to the Wall.
Arya and Gendry hide from the Gold Cloaks.
Arya travels north on the Kingsroad with Yoren, posing as one of his Night's Watch recruits. She is drawn to one of the prisoners in the wagon, Jaqen H'ghar. Since he is a murderer from the black cells of the dungeons, where the worst criminals are kept in King's Landing, he will stay locked up in the cage until they reach the Wall. He asks for water, but the other two murderers, Rorge and Biter, threaten her, so she does not get it for him. She forms a bond with former blacksmith's apprentice Gendry who sees through her disguise. When Gold Cloaks arrive from King's Landing with a warrant for one of the recruits, Arya fears that they are looking for her, but it is actually Gendry (who is unaware of his status as a royal bastard of Robert Baratheon). Yoren intimidates them into leaving empty-handed. Arya confesses her identity to Gendry after he reveals being questioned by her father before leaving the capital.
Arya polishes Needle.
Arya asks for Yoren's advice on living with the tragedies she has suffered, and he tells her the story of how thoughts of revenge resulted in his committing murder and having to join the Night's Watch. He became obsessed with Willem, the man who killed his brother, and recited his name over and over at night before he slept. Then when Willem returned to Yoren's village, Yoren killed him and had to flee his village. Losing his life and future, he had to take the black. Arya doesn't understand the point of the story: Yoren was trying to tell her not to be obsessed by thoughts of revenge as it will consume her, but Arya heard that she should chant the names of her enemies each night before she slept, almost like a prayer, until the day she can get revenge. The Gold Cloaks return, having enlisted the support of Ser Amory Lorch and Lannister men. Yoren dies heroically defending Gendry, but the recruits are overcome by the group. During the skirmish, a fire starts near the cage where Jaqen and his companions are being held. Arya saves them by risking the flames to give them an ax to help them get out. Polliver steals Needle from Arya. Arya convinces Ser Amory that he has killed Gendry because another recruit died while he was carrying Gendry's bull's head helm.
Ser Amory takes his captives to Harrenhal. Each day one of the prisoners is chosen by Ser Gregor Clegane to be systematically and brutally tortured by the Tickler. Arya begins a nightly recitation of the names of her enemies, adding the Mountain and Polliver to her list. Lord Tywin Lannister returns to the castle and halts the ordeal, shortly before Gendry is going to be killed. He criticizes Gregor for wasting manpower. He immediately realizes that Arya is a girl posing as a boy. She claims that it made it safer to travel. Tywin commends her intelligence and makes her his cupbearer.
Arya speaks with Tywin Lannister.
Tywin hosts a war council, and Arya serves food and drink. She moves to pour wine, but Tywin stops her, demanding water. He questions her origin, realizing that she is a northerner. He rejects Arya's first lie that she is from the Riverlands, but her second lie withstands his scrutiny. Upon being questioned about the northerners' opinions of her brother, Robb Stark, she repeats rumors that he has a supernatural link to his direwolf and that he is invulnerable. Tywin asks if she believes this and she replies, "No, My Lord, anyone can be killed." She leaves to fetch water and encounters Jaqen, now a Lannister man-at-arms. Jaqen says that because she saved his life, and those of his two fellow prisoners, he owes her three deaths and offers to kill three people of her choosing. She first targets the Tickler. He is soon found dead in the courtyard. Arya notices Jaqen on the walkway above and he smiles and holds a single finger to his face to signify his responsibility.
Arya is afraid of being recognized when Petyr Baelish visits Lord Tywin, but he says nothing. Tywin catches her reading a letter detailing his troop movements and questions where she learned to read. She distracts him by asking about his own childhood and steals the letter. She is caught carrying it by Ser Amory. She manages to escape him and names him as her next victim to Jaqen. Jaqen kills him before he is able to expose the theft. Tywin believes that he was the intended victim and begins a brutal investigation, ordering the deaths of dozens of his own men. He tasks Ser Gregor with rooting out the Brotherhood Without Banners, believing that they are responsible for the assassination. Tywin talks to Arya about the importance of legacy and the destruction of Harrenhal in the War of Conquest. His suspicions are heightened by her own knowledge of history.
Arya escaping Harrenhal with Gendry and Hot Pie.
Tywin decides to leave Harrenhal to drive Robb's armies from the Westerlands. He names Gregor castellan and leaves Arya to serve him. Arya seeks out Jaqen, intending to name Tywin as her last target to protect Robb, but is unable to find him in time. When he returns from patrol she asks him to help her escape and he refuses, saying that it was not part of their arrangement. She gives Jaqen his own name in response, refusing to take it back unless he helps her. Jaqen kills several guards that night, allowing Arya to walk out of the castle with Gendry and Hot Pie.
As the trio begin their trek into the Riverlands, they are surprised by Jaqen, who seems to appear from nowhere. Arya approaches him alone and asks how he killed those men, expressing her desire to learn his assassination skills. He offers to take Arya to Braavos (home city of her "dancing" instructor Syrio Forel) to train with the Faceless Men. She declines, telling him that she needs to find her family first, including Sansa. Jaqen gives Arya a single coin, explaining that should she change her mind, she only needs to give the coin to any man from Braavos and recite the High Valyrian words "Valar Morghulis." Jaqen changes his face to that of another man and bids a stunned Arya farewell.
Arya, Gendry and Hot Pie are discovered by the Brotherhood without Banners.
Arya, Hot Pie, and Gendry continue traveling to Riverrun. They are eventually captured by the Brotherhood Without Banners, who mistake them for war refugees. They are taken to a local inn where they are fed. Just as they are about to leave, Sandor Clegane is brought in as a captive. Despite trying to stay out of his sight, Clegane spots Arya and reveals her true identity.
Arya and Gendry watch the trial by combat between Beric and Sandor.
Hot Pie stays behind to work at the inn while Gendry and Arya are taken to the Commander of the Brotherhood at their hideout in the Riverlands. When Clegane is brought before Lord Beric, she accuses him of the murder of Mycah. During the trial by combat ordered by Beric, Arya heartily calls out for Clegane's death, but ultimately the Hound overpowers and kills Dondarrion, who is then resurrected by the Red Priest Thoros of Myr. As the victor, the Hound is declared innocent and released, much to Arya's disgust.
Later, Arya questions Gendry for repairing Dondarrion's armor and tries to get him to come with her and fight for her brother. Gendry says he's tired of serving lords and wishes to fight to protect the smallfolk and join the Brotherhood, in which all members are equal, comparing them to a family. Arya, sadly, chokes out she could be his family. Gendry gently points out that if he goes with her they'd never be family: he'd still be a commoner and Arya would be "m'lady."
As Thoros lays by a fire, Arya whispers her death list prayer. Thoros reveals they will take her to Riverrun to her family, in exchange for a reward for their cause. Arya points out she is being ransomed. Thoros admits it, and that Beric would like to return her to her family without any ransom out of respect for the memory of her father, but they need the gold. Beric joins them and points out he understands she is angry with him for releasing the Hound. Arya asks why he would release a man who nearly killed him, only for Dondarrion and Thoros to reveal Beric was actually killed but was resurrected by the Lord of Light, showing her the lethal injuries he's sustained at the hands of Lannister soldiers, including Gregor Clegane. Arya asks Thoros if he could resurrect a man without a head. Both men understand she's talking about her father and tell her they are not sure it would be possible. Beric then reveals that with each time he's been resurrected he's been losing memories and adds that Ned Stark was a good man whom he admired, but he wouldn't wish his life upon Ned. Arya answers that she would, for he would at least be alive.
Melisandre foresees Arya's future and mentions that they will meet again.
Anguy trains Arya with a bow. Arya spots someone behind her target, which is revealed to be Melisandre and a small group of Stannis Baratheon's men. Melisandre says the Brotherhood has someone the Lord of Light needs and soon after, Melisandre has her men take Gendry into her custody. Arya protests, particularly when she sees that Melisandre has given the Brotherhood two heavy sacks of gold in exchange. She confronts the red priestess, calling her a witch. Melisandre ignores the barb and looks into Arya's eyes. She sees many other eyes, of many other colors - eyes that Arya will shut forever. Before leaving, she tells Arya that they will meet again.
Arya displeased at the Brotherhood's actions.
Later at the hideout, Arya is disillusioned with the Brotherhood for selling Gendry, and rejects Dondarrion's argument that it was the will of the one true god, revealing the only one true god she believes in is Death. When Dondarrion decides to postpone delivering Arya to Riverrun to raid a group of Lannister soldiers for their armor and weapons, Arya angrily calls them out on their hypocrisy and runs away, hoping the Lannister soldiers will kill them all. She evades the Brotherhood but before she gets too far, she is kidnapped by Sandor Clegane, who was lying in wait for her.
Arya and the Hound travel towards the Twins.
Some time later, now a captive of the Hound, Arya picks up a rock and stands over the Hound planning to strike. She thinks he is sound asleep, but he opens his eyes and tells her she has one chance to hit him and kill him, because if she fails, he will break her hands. Later she sits on the horse with him sullen and refusing food he offers her. Sandor points out that for all she hates him, Arya could have been taken captive by far worse. He tells her the story of Sansa and how he rescued her from the mob, men who were going to rape her in every way then slit her throat and leaving her to die. Arya says he's lying, but Sandor says, "Ask your sister, if you ever see her again". They continue onward across the meadows and arrive at a river, which Arya initially thinks is the Blackwater. Rather confused with her lack of understanding, he tells her it is the Red Fork of the Trident. Arya had believed the Hound was taking her back to King's Landing, but he reveals that he is in fact taking her to the Twins, intending to get a reward by ransoming her back to her family. The marriage of her uncle is imminent, and both her brother and her mother will be there at the Twins. He tells her ruefully that if she was not so busy trying to bash his skull in, they might make it in time for the wedding. Arya hides a smile, as the Hound spurs the horse to a gallop.
Arya stops the Hound from killing the old man.
On the way to the Twins, Arya and Sandor come across a hog farmer, who is also going to the Twins for the wedding, but his wagon is damaged. Sandor lifts the wagon, the hog farmer repairs it, then Sandor punches him and knocks him unconscious. Sandor draws a dagger to kill the hog farmer, but Arya begs him not to, and he relents. The hog farmer wakes up, and Arya knocks him out again with another blow to the head.
They arrive in the area of the Twins, and Arya nervously gazes toward the Stark camp. Sandor tells Arya that she is visibly afraid that something may happen to ruin her reunion with her family. Arya tells Sandor that he was visibly afraid of Beric Dondarrion's flaming sword, and that she knows what Sandor's brother did to him when they were children. Sandor taunts Arya about the execution of her father, then Arya tells Sandor one day she will stab him through his eye and out the back of his skull.
Arya and Sandor arrive at the gates of the Twins, in disguise as a hog farmer and his daughter. Sandor tells a Frey guard they have salt pork for the wedding feast, but the guard tells them the feast is over and orders them to leave. Arya then runs away from Sandor and hides near a table of Stark soldiers. Suddenly, soldiers come out of the castle and murder the Stark men. Arya hears Grey Wind howling inside a wooden cage, but four crossbowmen come out of the castle and murder the direwolf before she can release him. After the crossbowmen leave, Arya attempts to enter the castle, but is stopped by Sandor, who says that it is too late to do anything. Arya struggles to get into the castle anyway, so Sandor knocks her unconscious and carries her away, realizing that any attempt to intervene at this point would be suicide.
Arya seeing the aftermath of the Red Wedding.
Sandor mounts his horse with her, and picks up a Frey banner for their safety as he tries to slip away through the chaos. They both witness Frey and Bolton soldiers parading her brother's mutilated corpse, with the head of Grey Wind attached to her brother's body. Arya and Sandor then flee the castle on horseback while the Stark army is massacred during the Red Wedding.
Arya after killing the Frey soldier with a knife.
While riding to destinations unknown, Arya and Sandor come across a group of four Frey soldiers eating at a campfire. They are mocking the death of Arya's mother, while one of the soldiers describes the process of sewing Grey Wind's head onto Robb Stark's dead body. Arya then dismounts from Sandor's horse and slowly walks up behind the soldier. He turns around and asks her what she wants, and she says she wants to keep warm and is hungry. The soldiers rudely tell her to go away, then she says she has money, and shows them the Braavosi coin given to her by Jaqen H'ghar. She purposely drops the coin, and when the soldier bends down to pick it up, she repeatedly stabs him in the back of the neck with a knife. The other three men draw their weapons, but Sandor appears and kills all three with ease. Sandor asks Arya how she got a knife, and she says she took it from him. Sandor asks if that was the first man she has ever killed, and Arya confirms, "the first man" (not counting the stableboy in King's Landing). As Sandor helps himself to the soldiers' dinner, Arya picks up the coin with her bloodied fingers and whispers, "Valar Morghulis."
Arya and the Hound make for the Eyrie.
The Hound has now decided to take Arya to Lysa Arryn, her aunt, in the Eyrie, where he can sell her. Arya is displeased with this arrangement and wishes for a horse so that she can stay a distance away from the Hound during the rest of their journey. The Hound argues that he doesn't want her out of his sight and giving her a horse would provide her with the chance to escape.
Arya listens as the Hound and Polliver talk.
They stop near a tavern and Arya suggests that they attack the Lannister soldiers there. She recognizes one of them as Polliver, the one who callously stabbed Lommy through the neck with her own sword, Needle. She sees Needle, still tucked into Polliver's belt and is determined to retrieve it. When Arya and the Hound are in the tavern, Polliver looks over suspiciously. Arya is worried because she thinks that Polliver recognizes her, but it is the Hound that he recognizes. The Hound and Polliver's conversation eventually turns hostile which leads into a brawl in the tavern. The Hound kills most of the men, and Arya puts a sword through one who the Hound had knocked to the floor.
Arya stands over Polliver.
Polliver attempts to sneak up behind the Hound, but Arya slashes Polliver in the back of the leg with a longsword and takes Needle. She repeats what Polliver said to Lommy before he killed him, but Polliver doesn't understand what she is talking about until she says "Fine little blade. Maybe I'll pick my teeth with it." As Polliver realizes who she is, Arya sticks Needle into his throat, and he dies the same way Lommy died, making Polliver the first person she killed from her list. When they leave, The Hound allows Arya to take one of the Lannister horses.
The Hound and Arya eating inside the farmer's house.
Arya and the Hound stop to water their horses. Arya thinks that they are lost and asks him what he plans to do after he takes her to the Eyrie. He says he might join the Second Sons. A farmer and his daughter appear and ask them what they are doing on his lands. Arya makes up a story about the Hound being a soldier for House Tully, which luckily gets them access to his home and food. The next morning, Arya wakes up to a scream. The Hound has beaten the farmer and taken his silver. Arya is furious, telling him he is the "worst shit in the seven kingdoms." He ignores the insult and tells her that the farmer and his daughter will not survive this upcoming winter anyway.
Arya recites her list by a campfire as the Hound tries to sleep. After a while, he tells her to be quiet. Arya says she can't go to sleep without saying all of the names. Irritated, the Hound asks her if she is going to name every person in Westeros, to which she replies, "Only the ones I'm going to kill." He calmly replies that hate is as good as any motivation to keep a person going. He makes a note that if they would come across his brother, both of them would cross one name from their death lists. Arya asks the Hound what he would do if the Mountain was at their camp, and he responds he would tell his brother to shut up and let him sleep, implying that Arya asks too many questions. He tells Arya to finish her death list. She finally says she only has one name left remaining which, to his surprise, is his.
Arya practices her water dancing.
The next day, Arya is practicing her water dancing beside a river. Sandor, predictably, makes fun of her for prancing around. When Arya tells him that she learned her fighting style from Syrio Forel, whom she believes was killed by Ser Meryn Trant, he openly mocks the Braavosi for being defeated by such a worthless fighter. Eventually, he lets her have a go at him, for her dead friend Mycah whom he killed, but Needle won't even pierce his armor. He backhands her and, with Needle pointed at her throat, Sandor reminds her that Syrio Forel is dead, and her techniques are best learned from people who are still alive, like the people on her list.
After Arya kills Rorge.
Arya and Sandor encounter a dying man in a ransacked village. Sandor gives the man a gift of mercy by stabbing him in the heart. Moments later, Sandor is ambushed by Biter, who bites him on the neck; he snaps Biter's neck and drops him dead in the dirt. Rorge appears, revealing that there is a price on the Hound's head. Arya instantly recognizes him as one of the prisoners in Yoren's group, who threatened to molest her; he is not her kill list because she does not know his name. The Hound asks for Rorge's name, and after he says it, Arya kills him with Needle. Sandor cynically comments "You're learning."
Arya witnesses as the Hound addresses his damaged neck.
Afterwards, Sandor clumsily addresses his wounds from Biter. Arya suggests burning to cauterize the wound, but is rebuffed by Sandor because of his fear of fire. Sandor confirms the story of his facial scars from burns inflicted by Gregor's wrath and how his father covered up the truth, making him feel alone. Arya offers to clean and stitch him up, and Sandor allows her to do so.
Arya and Sandor's reaction to Lysa Arryn's recent death.
As Arya and Sandor make their way to the Eyrie, Arya laments that she doesn't feel any satisfaction over Joffrey's death (which they learned of from Rorge), expressing disappointment in the fact that she was neither able to be present during his murder or be the one to kill him. Once they reach the Bloody Gate, Ser Donnel Waynwood informs them that Lysa Arryn had passed away just three days prior, prompting Arya to burst into a fit of laughter over their continuing bad luck as Sandor stands dumbfounded over his attempts to collect a ransom being foiled yet again.
When Arya and Sandor leave the Eyrie, they encounter Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne. At first, Brienne does not know she's speaking to Arya Stark, whom she swore to her mother Catelyn to find and protect. When Pod tells her that the man with Arya is Sandor Clegane, she realizes it's Arya and begs her to come with her. The Hound doesn't trust Brienne, as she is carrying Oathkeeper, a gift from Jaime, which is gilded with a lion's head hilt, making him thinks she's working for the Lannisters. Brienne and Sandor fight, each of them believing they should be the one to watch over Arya.
Arya watches as the Hound suffers.
Brienne wins after beating Sandor with a rock and knocking him down a small cliff. Arya, rather than going with Brienne and Pod, hides from them until they leave. She then goes down the cliff to find the gravely injured Sandor, who begs her to kill him. When Sandor believes she won't do it, he tries to goad her into doing it, telling her that it is another name to strike off her list, he killed the butcher's boy when he begged him for mercy, and he should have raped Sansa when he had the chance. Instead, Arya takes his money and leaves him to die.
Arya on her way to Braavos.
While traveling on her horse, Arya comes across a ship preparing to leave port. Arya first asks the captain to take her to the Wall, her intent being to meet up with her brother, Jon Snow. When the captain, Ternesio Terys, tells her that he is in fact going home to the Free City of Braavos, Arya shows him the iron coin which Jaqen H'ghar had given her. As Terys looks in awe, she tells him "valar morghulis". He promptly nods his head and replies "valar dohaeris", offering her a cabin aboard the Titan's Daughter. Arya is then shown sailing away on the ship, headed to Braavos.
Arya arrives in Braavos.
After a long sea voyage, Arya arrives at Braavos. Arya is awestruck by the Titan, which, according to the captain, would wake and protect the city whenever Braavos stood in danger in the old times. Arya replies it's just a statue. Just then, the Titan lets out a loud blast announcing their arrival, startling her, but she convinces herself that she is not afraid. Terys rows Arya to the House of Black and White, where he claims she may find Jaqen, and Arya thanks him for bringing her this far. Arya lingers outside waiting for admittance, but is rejected by an elder man despite showing the coin Jaqen H'ghar had given her and mentioning their prior association.
Arya waits outside the House for days, endlessly reciting the names of the people she wants to kill, but eventually tosses away her coin and wanders off into the streets of Braavos. While hunting for pigeons in the city, Arya encounters several boys who intend to take Needle from her. Although she is more than willing to kill them, the boys scatter when the man from the House of Black and White appears again behind her. After following him back to the House, Arya demands to know his identity, and he returns to her the coin she had thrown in the water. His face morphs into the visage Arya had known him as — that of Jaqen H'ghar. However, he insists he's not Jaqen H'ghar, but "no one", as all Faceless Men are, and he tells Arya she must learn to be "no one" as well.
As Arya cleans the main sanctuary of the House of Black and White, she watches the man who looks like Jaqen H'ghar assist another man in drinking from the temple's well. When the man leaves to pray, Arya tells Jaqen that she wants to learn. He recites the phrase "Valar Dohaeris", meaning "all men must serve", and accuses Arya of only wanting to serve herself. When Arya looks back at the praying man, she sees that he has died and two men take his body away, ignoring Arya when she asks what they are doing with the body.
Arya is accosted by The Waif.
Later, Arya is accosted in her room by the Waif, who repeatedly asks her who she is, hitting her when she gives the expected response of "no one." Eventually, Jaqen arrives and demands the Waif to stop. He notices that Arya was about to attack the Waif with Needle and points out that Arya cannot be no one, as she is still wearing Arya Stark's clothes, is in possession of Arya Stark's silver, and was about to attack the Waif using Arya Stark's sword. In order to meet the order's initiation requirements, Arya throws her old clothing and silver into the lagoon. Too attached to Needle, however, she is unable to discard it and hides it among a few rocks nearby. Later, as Arya is sweeping the floor, Jaqen escorts Arya to an inner chamber where she is to help the Waif in stripping and washing corpses. The Waif doesn't respond when Arya asks what happens to the bodies after they are cleaned.
Arya finishes cleaning a corpse which is then taken away by two men. Arya wants to know what happens to the bodies she cleans, but the Waif tells her that she will know when the time is right. Arya demands to play the game of faces. The Waif tells her that she has already tried playing the game but failed. She asks Arya who she is, to which Arya replies that she is no one. When the Waif is about to walk away, Arya asks her who she is. The Waif tells Arya a story about how she was the only daughter of a widowed Lord, who remarried, producing another daughter. Her stepmother, in order to secure her own daughter's future, tried to poison her. The Waif found out about this and sought out the help of the Faceless Men to exact her revenge. The Waif then asks Arya whether she believed the story. When Arya doesn't respond, embarrassed that she bought the Waif's story, the Waif tells her to get back to work, hinting that to pass the game of faces, Arya must be able to lie convincingly.
Later, when Arya is asleep, Jaqen H'ghar comes to test Arya again. This time, when he asks Arya who she is, Arya tells him how she came to join the Faceless Men, trying to slip in a few lies into the story. However, Jaqen is able to tell when Arya is lying and hits her whenever she does. Before he leaves, he tells her that she is lying not only to him, but to herself as well when she says she hates the Hound.
Jaqen H'ghar shows Arya the Hall of Faces.
A grieving father brings his sick daughter, Ghita, to the House of Black and White, wanting to end her suffering. Arya tells the girl a false story about how she was sick too, but her father brought her here and when she drank from the temple's well, she was healed, persuading Ghita to drink the poisoned water from the well. The girl dies, and Arya, having proven that she can lie, is brought to the Hall of Faces by Jaqen. All the faces had been taken from the corpses that the acolytes wash in the temple. He then asks Arya if she is ready to give up who she is to become "no one." After a moment of silence, he then states that she is not ready to become "no one" , but that she is ready to become "someone else."
Arya, posing as "Lanna", sells oysters, clams, and cockles on the canal streets.
Arya's first assignment is to pose as a shellfish merchant to study a target known as the Thin man. Before the assassination is carried out, Arya is distracted by the sight of a name on her list: Meryn Trant. She sees him dock and follows him as he guards Mace Tyrell on his way to the Iron Bank. That night, Arya follows Trant and several guards to a brothel. She is chased out by the owner, but not before she learns that Trant prefers sex with very young girls. She reports her failure to kill the Thin man to Jaqen (not mentioning why she failed) and promises to try again tomorrow.
Trant is given three girls the next night, whom he beats for his amusement. The first two are left whimpering from his beatings, but not the third. Trant dismisses the first two and continues to hit the third girl, to no effect, so he punches her in the gut. Crumpled on the floor, the girl removes her face and reveals herself as Arya wearing the mask of dead Ghita.
Arya stabs Meryn Trant in the eye.
She quickly stabs him in the eyes and several times in the chest, but her blade is too short and has little effect. She teases him about how he was the first name on her list and how the Many-Faced God has denied her of others, but how he has delivered Trant to her. She asks him if he remembers Syrio Forel, who he presumably killed in King's Landing. She assumes he doesn't. Arya then asks if he knows who she is, though Trant is in too much pain and shock to understand what is happening. She reveals herself as Arya Stark, and slits his throat.
Arya's punishment for stealing from the Many-Faced God is blindness.
Arya returns to the House of Black and White to put the face she used back on the wall. She is caught by Jaqen and the Waif. They are displeased that Arya has defied the Many-Faced God by killing someone who was not hers to kill. The Waif restrains Arya and Jaqen pulls out a vial of poison saying, "Only death can pay for life." Just before Arya thinks she is about to be poisoned, Jaqen drinks it himself and dies. The Waif questions Arya's grief for her friend, only to shock Arya by revealing herself to be Jaqen. Confused, Arya repeatedly removes multiple faces from "Jaqen's" body, until she sees her own face. Arya's eyes fill over with white as she is rendered blind as punishment.
Arya fights the Waif; blind.
Now blind, Arya poses as a beggar as part of her training. After overhearing two passing citizens discussing Meryn's murder, she is approached by the Waif, remarking on her blindness. Tossed a stick, she fights and loses another sparring match against the Waif. Unimpressed, the Waif leaves Arya, promising to return the following day.
Arya rejoins the Faceless Men.
The next day, the Waif returns and asks Arya who she is. When Arya answers "no one," the Waif brushes this off and promptly beats her in another sparring match. Arya angrily lashes out after the Waif leaves, but is stopped by Jaqen, who repeatedly asks her to say her name. After Arya tells him "a girl has no name" each time, an impressed Jaqen allows her to return to the House of Black and White.
Multiple stick fights between Arya and the Waif ensue. At the same time, Arya learns to cope with her blindness while telling the Waif her story and list of targets. With Arya finally holding her own, Jaqen gives her a cup from the well in the House of Black and White and tells her if she truly is no one, she has nothing to fear. She drinks the water and regains her sight.
Jaqen gives Arya a target.
Arya is tasked to kill an actress named Lady Crane, though Jaqen warns she has been given a second chance and won't get a third. She views the first portion of the play The Bloody Hand, in which Lady Crane portrays Cersei. Afterwards, Arya notices that another actress, Bianca, is jealous of Lady Crane, and deduces that it was she who hired the Faceless Men to kill Lady Crane.
Arya watches The Bloody Hand.
After watching the remainder of the play on a different occasion, Arya walks backstage and poisons her Lady Crane's rum. On the way back, Lady Crane notices her, and the two briefly converse about the play. Speaking from experience, Arya suggests that the Cersei character's response to the death of her son would not only be grief -- it should also include anger. After asking Arya if she likes pretending to be others, Crane tries to express Arya's opinion to the rest of the troupe, but is quickly shut down. She goes to drink the beverage Arya poisoned, but Arya slaps it from her hands before she can drink it, blaming Bianca.
Arya retrieves Needle.
Unbeknownst to Arya, The Waif had been following her and discovers that Arya has failed to kill the actress. The Waif proceeds to report Arya's failure to Jaqen, who grants her wish to let her kill Arya but that she must not let her suffer. Meanwhile, Arya retrieves Needle from its hiding place and prepares to defend herself, presumably abandoning the goal of becoming a Faceless assassin and knowing her failure has made her a target.
Arya is stabbed by the Waif.
Afterwards, Arya secures passage back to Westeros by bribing a Westerosi trader. However, she is attacked and repeatedly stabbed in the stomach by the Waif, and only barely escapes by jumping into the river. She is left stumbling through the streets of Braavos, critically wounded and extremely paranoid.
Arya's wounds worsen whilst escaping the Waif.
Seeking refuge, Arya finds her way to Lady Crane, collapsing from her injuries behind the theater troupe stage. Lady Crane takes her to her living quarters, where she treats Arya's wounds and gives her a new set of clothing. Arya reluctantly accepts a dosage of milk of the poppy to help ease her pain, and soon after falls asleep in Lady Crane's bed. When she wakes up, she finds her dead in the next room, murdered by the Waif. Jumping off the balcony and into the streets of Braavos, Arya manages to escape, though she is pursued by the Waif. After scurrying the back-alleys of the city, Arya finds herself in the Braavosi market. However, the Waif continues to pursue her, forcing her to jump into the commotion of the crowd. Subsequently, Arya's stitches become undone.
Arya prepares to fight the Waif.
Leaving a trail of blood in her wake, Arya lures the Waif to the hideout in which she has hidden Needle. The Waif then asks her if she would like to die on her knees, or on her feet - in response, Arya pulls Needle out from its hiding place and confronts her attacker, starting by putting out the only light in the room. In the ensuing fight, Arya manages to best the Waif due to her proficiency with fighting in blindness, a skill which was ironically taught and trained by the Waif. She kills her adversary and then removes her face, which she brings back to the Hall of Faces.
Aware that Jaqen sent the Waif to kill her, Arya points Needle at him in an accusatory manner, though Jaqen claims that she has finally truly become "no one", indicating the completion of her training as a Faceless Man. In reply, Arya reaffirms that she will never be "no one" and is and will always be Arya Stark of Winterfell. Lowering her sword, she then leaves the House of Black and White and Jaqen for good, making the ultimate decision to return to Westeros, her home.
Arya reveals herself to Walder Frey and slits his throat.
Upon arriving in Westeros, Arya travels to the Twins where she disguises herself as a serving girl. After Jaime and his soldiers depart for King's Landing, Arya manages to kill both "Lame" Lothar Frey and "Black" Walder Rivers, who were responsible for the deaths of Talisa Stark and her mother Catelyn Stark, respectively. She then proceeds to dismember their bodies and bake them into a pie, which she serves to Lord Walder Frey as the two are alone in the dining hall, still wearing the face of a serving girl. After she reveals her true identity, she slits Walder's throat and watches with amusement as he dies.
Arya reveals herself after poisoning the sons of House Frey.
After killing Lord Walder, Arya uses his face to impersonate him and hold a feast in honor of all of his sons. She gives a rousing speech, "reminiscing" over House Frey's victories, before offering her audience a toast of poisoned wine. As Walder's many sons drink from their chalices, Arya refuses to let any of the women partake, aware of their innocence. She then elicits cheers from the many Frey sons upon the mention of the infamous Red Wedding, though then goes on to subtly mock them by reminding them of how they butchered a pregnant woman, cut the throat of a mother of five, and slaughtered the Starks after inviting them into their home. As the Frey sons begin to cough up blood from the poison, Arya watches with satisfaction as they all die before removing her mask and revealing herself. Before leaving, she asks Walder's wife, Kitty Frey, to tell anyone that might ask what happened that "the north remembers", and remarks that winter has come for House Frey.
Arya camps with Lannister soldiers.
After departing from the Twins, Arya comes across a small convoy of Lannister soldiers, one of which gains her attention with a sweet song. Arya agrees, upon request, to join them at their fire, and accepts their offerings of food and drink, though cautiously. She engages in some small talk with them, including the destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor, all the while keeping her eye on their swords, and states that she is heading for King's Landing. After she admits that she is planning on killing Queen Cersei, they laugh, unaware that this is her true intention.
Arya chooses her home over revenge.
Arya later visits the Inn at the Crossroads where she overhears some patrons discussing the recent arrival of Daenerys Targaryen and her dragons. She is reunited with Hot Pie, who brings her several pies which she eagerly consumes. He reminds her of the destruction of the Sept of Baelor at the hands of Queen Cersei and informs her of his own encounter with Brienne. She offers to pay for her meal when she has finished, but Hot Pie refuses her coin as a friendly gesture. Upon learning that her half-brother Jon has taken back Winterfell from the Boltons and become the King in the North, Arya decides to finally head home after leaving the inn, instead of heading to King's Landing.
Arya reunites with Nymeria.
On her way to Winterfell, Arya makes a small campfire in the woods. As she warms herself by the fire, she is suddenly ambushed by a large pack of wild wolves, which startles her horse. Surrounded, Arya pulls out Needle to defend herself, though the wolves do not attack, and Arya finds herself face to face with a now fully grown Nymeria, much to her astonishment. She pleads for her Direwolf to come with her to Winterfell, but Nymeria instead retreats with her pack back into the woods. Arya realizes that Nymeria is no longer the same and that she has also changed herself since they last saw each other. Softly, and with a small smile, she murmurs, "That's not you", echoing what she said to her father years ago when he suggested that someday she would marry a powerful lord.
Arya Stark finally returns to Winterfell. She rides up to the gates and dismounts, but the guards don't believe her when she identifies herself as Arya Stark, convinced that Arya has been dead for years. Arya asks that they send word to Maester Luwin and Rodrik Cassel, who can prove her identity (not knowing they are both dead). The guards brush her off, telling Arya there is nobody by those names at Winterfell. Arya asks for Jon, but they say he actually just left Winterfell, so Arya asks who is in charge of Winterfell. The guards respond, "Lady Stark," who Arya realizes is her sister. They try to brush her aside, but she dodges them with her assassin's reflexes, and insists that one way or another she's getting in. She explains to them that if she is Arya, they'll be in a lot of trouble for stopping her, and if she isn't, she won't last long in Winterfell anyway. Mildly concerned, they agree to at least let her in the courtyard, but insist that she stay put while they send for Sansa so they can disprove her identity. As soon as they take their eyes off her, however, she slips away. The two guards go to inform Sansa and try to wave the incident aside as just some impostor, but she instantly realizes it must be Arya, and knows where she has gone.
Arya reunites with Sansa.
Sansa finds Arya where she expected, in the crypts looking over their father's grave. They are happy to see each other, but so much has happened to both of them in the past few years that they are at first awkward, unsure of what to say. Arya asks if she has to call Sansa "Lady Stark" now, to which Sansa firmly insists "Yes" - and then laughs. They smile and hug, though still a bit unsure. Arya notes that Jon left her in charge and smiles when Sansa says that she hopes Jon will be back soon -  he will be so happy to see Arya, remembering how happy Jon was to see her when they were reunited, and the pair were never that close (unlike Jon and Arya). The sisters then look sadly on their father's grave statue. Arya says it doesn't really look like him. Sansa acknowledges that everyone who really knew his face is dead. Arya points out that they're not.
Arya then asks if Sansa really killed Joffrey. Sansa explains she actually didn't, though she wished she had. Arya remarks that he was always at the top of her "list." This confuses Sansa, and Arya explains that she'd been keeping a list of everyone she was going to kill - at which they both laugh. Finally, Sansa asks how Arya got back, but she only says her road wasn't a pleasant one. Sansa says hers wasn't either. They hug again, earnestly and warmly. Sansa then informs Arya that Bran is home too. Arya is elated, but her smile fades when Sansa does not mention Rickon, realizing that Rickon is dead.
Arya reunites with Bran.
Sansa brings Arya to Bran in the godswood, where he is lost in thought by the Weirwood heart tree. Arya is saddened to see him paralyzed. Still somewhat detached even at the sight of Arya, Bran says he isn't surprised she's alive because he saw her at the Crossroads. Arya is confused, and Sansa explains that Bran is having "visions" now. Bran says he thought Arya was going to King's Landing, and when Sansa asks why she would head there of all places, he again startles them both by saying it's because Cersei is on her list of names (which he can't possibly be aware of through normal means). Sansa asks who else is on her list, but she says most of them besides Cersei are actually dead already. They then remark on the Valyrian steel dagger in his lap, and he explains that Littlefinger gave it to him, thinking he'd want it. Despite it being such a horrible keepsake that nearly killed him and indirectly set off a chain of events leading to his parents' deaths, he is still listless and disinterested in it. Arya is confused as to why a common cutthroat would have a rare, priceless blade of Valyrian steel. Bran matter-of-factly says that someone very wealthy wanted him dead, and gave it to the assassin. Bran says that doesn't matter and hands it to Arya, saying she can have it because it's "wasted on a cripple." The three trueborn Stark children, finally reunited, proceed back to Winterfell's castle courtyard, with Arya pushing Bran in his wheelchair.
Arya spars with Brienne.
Some time later, Brienne is going through a vigorous sword practice session with Podrick, knocking him down when he overextends himself. Impressed, Arya interrupts and says she'd like to spar with Brienne - the woman who beat the Hound in combat. Sansa and Littlefinger watch on silently from the walkway above. Brienne goes easy on her at first, but then Arya completely outmaneuvers Brienne using the water dance training she received from Syrio Forel, augmented by her training with the Faceless Men. Arya achieves many openings that would be a killing blow if she wanted them to be. Surprised that such a young girl is so skilled, Brienne stops holding back, leading to a grueling sparring session. Brienne actually manages to knock Needle out of Arya's hand but she simply switches to the Valyrian steel dagger she had in her belt. Arya uses her speed and agility to compensate for Brienne's strength and size to overwhelm her - until Brienne actually manages to bring her brute strength to bear on a fast moving target by landing a kick on Arya's chest that sends her sprawling. Brienne stops for a moment as Arya lies motionless, shocked at what she has done to a noblewoman. However, Arya swings her legs around and jumps up, causing Brienne to grin in relief. Ultimately, they reach a stalemate, with each of them holding a blade at the others' throat. Arya takes her leave of Brienne, both mutually impressed, as Sansa looks down baffled at how her sister reached such a deadly skill level. Arya then looks up at the battlements, where Petyr watched her duel with Brienne, giving him an untrustworthy stare until he walks away.
Arya later watches in the great hall as Sansa addresses Lords Glover and Royce over their concerns with Jon's absence. Glover says that perhaps they should have chosen Sansa instead due to his feeling that the King in the North should stay in the North while Royce says that the Vale came to Sansa's aid during the Battle for Winterfell. In response, Sansa kindly dismisses their notions, once again pledging her loyalty to Jon. In their late mother and father's chambers, Arya confronts Sansa about her apparent inaction towards Glover and Royce, claiming that she should have taken their heads for defying Jon's rule. Sansa reminds her sister that this would likely lose the support of both House Glover and the Vale and that they need to work together in order to survive. Arya is adamant that they should have been executed. Suspicious of Sansa and her relationship with Littlefinger, Arya begins to spy on him, following him to Sansa's bedchambers where he hides a rolled parchment inside of her mattress. Arya, unaware that the letter, written by Sansa after their father's imprisonment in the Red Keep in which she pledges her loyalty to Joffrey and the crown and urges Robb to submit to his rule, has been planted on purpose by Baelish in order to manipulate her, falls for his scheme and reads the letter, growing suspicious of her sister as she is also unaware that Sansa was coerced into writing the letter by Cersei. From the shadows, Littlefinger watches with satisfaction as Arya leaves the room.
Arya confronts Sansa about their father's death.
Arya and Sansa's relationship continues to grow increasingly strained following Arya's discovery of her sister's "incriminating" letter. Watching over the castle courtyard from the balcony, Arya reminisces about how their father used to watch her and her brothers train in the very same spot, bitterly claiming that Sansa wouldn't remember due to the fact that she was usually inside the castle knitting with her fellow ladies. She then tells Sansa how on one particular day, after their brothers had finished training with Ser Rodrik, she wandered into the vacant courtyard and began practicing her archery with Bran's discarded bow as their father watched from above.
Arya then resentfully states that he was killed by the Lannisters with Sansa's help, reading Sansa's letter to her aloud. Sansa insists that she was forced to write it and, being a naïve child that she was at the time, was led to believe that she was saving her family. However, Arya is adamant to point out that had she been in Sansa's position, she would have died before betraying her family, calling her stupid for believing in the Lannisters' lies. Arya reveals that she, like Sansa, was present during their father's execution and that she saw the whole thing from the statue of Baelor. Arya surmises that Sansa is afraid she will show the letter to the northern lords, thus losing their respect. Taking advantage of the tension between the two sisters, Littlefinger later suggests to Sansa that she use Lady Brienne to protect her from Arya.
Arya tells Sansa about the "Game of Faces."
In her bedchamber, Arya finds Sansa looking through her bag, which is full of her faces from Braavos. Confronting her sister, Arya toys with Sansa, insisting that they play the "game of faces", hoping to catch her in a lie and expose her disloyalty to Jon. Sansa, unwilling to play, instead insists that Arya explain the nature of her faces. Arya reveals that with the faces, she can be whomever she wants to be. Grasping her Valyrian steel catspaw dagger, she approaches her sister in a somewhat threatening manner, wondering aloud what it might feel like to wear pretty silk dresses and be the Lady of Winterfell should she take Sansa's face. Arya then hands her the dagger and promptly heads out the door, leaving her sister visibly disturbed.
Arya kills Petyr on Sansa's orders.
Arya is summoned to the Great Hall for a meeting with her sister and sees Bran and Sansa seated at the head of the great table, with Littlefinger smirking in the crowd. Sansa proceeds to list a series of crimes against House Stark... and directs them to Baelish, not Arya. Arya watches with satisfaction as Sansa and Bran turn the tables on Littlefinger and finally call him into account for his crimes, with Arya herself reminding Petyr that her new Valyrian steel dagger originally belonged to him. When Baelish's attempts to manipulate the situation turn to pleading, Arya moves in and slits his throat with his own dagger at Sansa's direction. Later, Arya and Sansa discuss their pasts, Arya saying that she couldn't have survived what Sansa survived. Sansa says she thinks Arya could have, Arya being the strongest person she knows. They then discuss the execution and the survival of their House, finally reaching an accord to play to each other's strengths - like the wolves of their sigil, they will survive as a pack.
Arya stands among the residents of the winter town as they watch Jon, Queen Daenerys Targaryen, and their combined forces march through the town to Winterfell. She notices Gendry among the entourage, but he doesn't appear to notice her. When Drogon and Rhaegal fly overhead, roaring, Arya is the only person among the crowd who doesn't appear startled or frightened; on the contrary, she is visibly fascinated by the dragons. She is not present in Winterfell's courtyard when Jon and Daenerys arrive before the Stark entourage, and Sansa replies that she is "lurking somewhere" when Jon inquires about her.
Arya reunites with Jon.
She silently approaches Jon in the godswood; when Jon asks how she could move so stealthily, Arya asks how he survived a knife through the heart, to which Jon replies that he didn't. After a moment's hesitation, the two run into each other's arms. Jon notices that Arya still has Needle and asks if she's ever used it and Arya quietly replies, "Once or twice." Jon shows her his sword Longclaw, which Arya is impressed by but comments it would be too heavy for her to wield. Jon asks where she was earlier, saying he could have used her help with Sansa as Sansa is at odds with Daenerys, the latter who Jon bent the knee to and fell in love with. Arya realizes, "[Sansa] doesn't like your queen, does she?" and says Sansa is the smartest person she knows. Jon is surprised Arya is now defending Sansa; Arya replies both she and Sansa are defending their family, advising Jon not to forget he's family too and they embrace a final time.
Arya reunites with Sandor.
Arya later visits Winterfell's forges and comes upon Gendry presenting the Hound with a custom-made axe of dragonglass, which the latter is not especially impressed with. She tells him to stop insulting Gendry's work and the two lock eyes. Before he leaves, the Hound gives Arya a back-handed compliment; calling her a "cold little bitch", but saying that's probably why she's still alive.
Arya reunites with Gendry.
Alone, Arya and Gendry exchange banter, recalling their past time together and she asks him to craft a special weapon for her. Although skeptical, Gendry agrees. Arya shows him her dagger of Valyrian steel, and he playfully replies that he always knew she was just another highborn girl. Before leaving, Arya cheekily shoots back that Gendry doesn't know any other highborn girls.
With the news that the army of the dead has taken Last Hearth and is advancing towards Winterfell, the inhabitants of the castle increase the speed of their preparations. Arya returns to the forges and asks Gendry if her weapon is ready, but he is still crafting her design. Annoyed, she tells him to prioritize it, before asking him what fighting the wights was like. Gendry replies, "Bad. Really bad." Arya is unsatisfied with "really bad" and keeps pushing for details until Gendry sums up their likeness in one word: "death." Gendry says that whatever bravery and fighting skill she has, the wights are like nothing she's ever faced. Unperturbed, Arya casually picks up three dragonglass daggers and throws them, one after another, into a wooden beam over Gendry’s shoulder, landing them in a tight formation. While doing so, she explains her familiarity with death and her excitement of what is to come, and Gendry stands, mesmerized at her deadpan surety and confidence.
While practicing her archery, Arya receives her weapon from Gendry: a quarterstaff mounted with dragonglass blades. When she asks what happened between Gendry and Melisandre, he tells her of the leech ritual. She probes him further, forcing him to admit his parentage as Robert's bastard, and asks if he was a virgin before the ritual. Gendry claims that he was not intimate with Melisandre, but admits that he has before slept with three girls.
Arya gives into her feelings for Gendry.
Arya, due to her ability to distinguish truth and lies (via her mastery of the "Game of Faces"), changes topic and states that since the two of them are likely to die soon, she wants to know the feeling of physical love before she does. She kisses him forcefully on the lips, after which Gendry shows some slight resistance, but he finally gives into the overwhelming sense of attraction, though he is briefly startled by the scars on her rib cage. Gendry sleeps soundly after their liaison, whilst Arya lies awake, awaiting the arrival of the White Walkers.
As the battle commences, Arya is stationed on the walls overlooking the battlefield alongside Sansa. After the wights easily defeat the initial charge of Dothraki screamers and begin to overwhelm the living beyond the trench, Arya tells Sansa to go to the crypts and hands her a dragonglass dagger. Sansa says she doesn't know how to use it, and Arya simply says "stick 'em with the pointy end. Arya shoots flaming arrows at the wights as the army retreats into the Winterfell, narrowly saving the Hound as well. As Daenerys couldn't light the trench as planned, due to being caught in a blizzard conjured by the White Walkers, Davos orders the archers to light the trench and Arya shoots into it as well, however the arrows arrow doused as soon as the hit the trench and are unable to light it. Melisandre manages to light the trench, giving the living some moment of reprieve, which when the Night King commands some of the wights to go into some parts of the trench, smothering the flames and allowing the rest to cross.
Arya fights the dead on the ramparts of Winterfell.
Arya participates in the fighting on the ramparts with the dragonglass weapon Gendry made for her. She skillfully kills off many wights, much to Davos's surprise, but is nearly surrounded and narrowly escapes. However, she loses her weapon in the process and sustains a head injury after being knocked into a doorway by a wight. Disoriented and bleeding from the gash at the side of her head, Arya feels a newfound fear for the wights. Arya escapes through a window into the castle, as she traverses through the corridors, she takes a dead soldier's dragonglass dagger.
Arya hides from the wights.
Making her way from the library, she takes a brief moment to catch her breath before she realizes that wights have entered the room. She carefully hides from them, between the bookshelves and underneath a table. Arya then throws a book into an area of the room away from the exit, distracting the wights and giving her an opening to escape. She quietly dispatches a wight on the way and closes the door behind her. Her relief is short-lived, as more wights broke into the corridor through another door and alert the ones in the library of her presence, proceeding to chase her.
Beric incinerates a wight, saving Arya.
Beric and the Hound have entered the castle to find and rescue Arya. She appears when a wight tackles her through a door, breaking it off its hinges, and prepares to kill her when she's pinned underneath him. Beric throws his flaming sword into it and helps her to her feet. More wights come through the doorway and Beric is stabbed in the leg whilst the Hound fights more wights. As the three try to escape the corridor, Arya watches as Beric runs in front of her to pin a wight to a wall and gets stabbed by more wights. Arya picks up a dragonglass hatchet and kills the wights hurting him, but the Hound picks her up and leaves Beric as more wights swarm in.
Beric dies after saving Arya.
The two make it into the great hall, which is littered with dead bodies, and Beric makes it too but succumbs to his wounds shortly afterwards. Melisandre appears, saying that Beric had fulfilled his purpose. Arya states that she remembers her and that the red priestess said they would meet again. She recounts what Melisandre said to her; that she would shut many eyes forever.
Melisandre reminds Arya of her destiny.
Melisandre confirms this, reminding the colors of the eyes, including blue - those of the army of the dead. At this, Arya goes through a realization. As wights try and fail to enter through the door, Melisandre asks "what do we say to the God of Death?" and Arya replies "not today", reminding her further of her training under Syrio Forel and her abilities gained from her time as an acolyte of the Faceless Men. They share one last look before Arya leaves her and the Hound. The Night King arrives to the godswood after his army cleared the path for him, and prepares to kill Bran after killing Theon. However, Arya slips past his forces and launches a surprise rear attack with her Valyrian steel dagger.
Arya kills the Night King.
Though he reacts swiftly enough to whip around and catch her by the neck and arm, Arya drops her dagger from the arm he is restraining, catches it in her free hand and plunges it into his heart, causing the Night King to shatter into icy shards. With his death, the White Walkers shatter as well, and the horde of wights, including Viserion, drop dead as the magic animating them died with the Night King and his lieutenants, bringing an end to the White Walkers, wights and the Long Night forever.
Arya attends the cremation of the fallen.
Arya is present when the bodies of those who fell during the Battle of Winterfell are set to be cremated. After Jon finishes his eulogy, she is handed a torch and goes to burn the pyre where Beric was laid. In the subsequent celebrations, Arya chooses not to participate, not entirely welcoming as being hailed as the "Hero of Winterfell." Gendry later seeks her out and finds her practicing her archery, narrowly avoiding getting hit by one upon doing so. He tells Arya that Daenerys legitimized him and he's now the new Lord of Storm's End. Gendry also kneels, and confesses to Arya that he loves her, and wants to marry her and have her become the Lady of Storm's End.
Arya silently judges Daenerys's conquest of Westeros.
Arya, at a loss for words, reciprocates this by kissing him but declines the proposal. She says that any woman would be lucky to marry him, saying "that's not [her]", words she said to her father years earlier. Arya continues to practice her archery and Gendry is left heartbroken.
Later, Arya attends the discussions regarding Daenerys resuming her conquest of Westeros. While Daenerys asserts that King's Landing must be taken as soon as possible, Sansa counters that their men are exhausted from fighting the White Walkers and need rest, to which Arya silently agrees. 
Arya and Sansa express their lack of faith in Daenerys.
Jon reaffirms his loyalty to Daenerys's cause and states that the North will march to King's Landing, much to his sisters' displeasure. As the meeting's adjourned, Arya blocks Jon before he could leave the room and all the siblings all go down to the godswood to talk. Arya and Sansa express their distrust towards Daenerys while Jon defends her, stating she is the reason they survived the battle. Arya concedes that Jon did the right thing when he bent the knee to Daenerys as they needed Daenerys's dragons and her army, but adds that they're doing the right thing when they tell Jon they don't trust Daenerys. Jon insists they just need time to get to know her but Arya says they'll never know her because she's not one of them. Jon protests they can't only trust the people they grew up with and Arya replies she only needs her family, they are the last of the Starks. Jon responds he's not a Stark; Sansa and Arya disagree, Arya telling Jon, "You're my brother. Not my half-brother or my bastard brother. My brother." This prompts Jon to decide to tell his sisters the truth of his heritage - but only after they swear this information to secrecy. Once Arya and Sansa vow not to tell, Jon has Bran tell them.
Arya and Sandor depart Winterfell.
As Sandor leaves Winterfell, he hears the sound of another horse approaching him and sees Arya. Arya moves to ride alongside Sandor, who inquires why she was leaving. Arya vaguely hints her intentions and Sandor likewise does. It becomes clear to both of them that they intend to seek their long-awaited respective revenge on Cersei and the Mountain, whilst having no intentions to return to Winterfell. The two proceed to ride towards King's Landing, reminiscent of when they were together years before. The two arrive at the camp of the Northern army the night before battle is set to begin. They are initially stopped by the Night Guard, but are allowed to continue when she states that killing Cersei may prevent a siege.
Arya bids farewell to Sandor.
Arya bluntly informs the guard that she came to kill Cersei, and it doesn't take much persuasion from the Hound for the guard to allow them to pass. The two enter King's Landing and manage to infiltrate the Red Keep amid the crowd of refugees scrambling inside. As the buildings of the Red Keep start to collapse all around them, Arya is still determined to carry out her revenge on Cersei. However, Sandor, witnessing the destruction being wrought by Daenerys on top of Drogon, dissuades Arya. He earnestly discourages her from ending up like him - beaten down by the world and driven by nothing the desire for vengeance. She thanks him, calling him 'Sandor' for the first time, and bids a final goodbye before fleeing.
Arya awakens to the destruction of King's Landing.
Arya tries to flee the city but is trapped in by the mass of scared people fleeing the dragon's flames. She tries to rescue the inhabitants but is knocked unconscious, unable to help anyone. Regaining her consciousness after the Battle of King's Landing is over, she witnesses the city in ruins and leaves on a horseback, shell-shocked by Daenerys's massacre.
Arya attends the Great Council.
She later reunites with Jon and warns him against his loyalty to Daenerys because of his bloodline and Sansa's refusal to bend the knee to her in the future. She also witnesses Daenerys' speech to the Dothraki and Unsullied. Weeks after Daenerys is assassinated, she takes part in the trial of Tyrion. When Yara Greyjoy agrees with the idea of Unsullied doing whatever they want with Jon, Arya threatens to kill her. Davos however manages to defuse the situation. Tyrion then suggests that the lords of Westeros choose their new king or queen and recommends Bran. Arya assents, though she withholds her vote as Sansa declares the North's independence at the meeting.
Arya bids farewell to Jon.
After Bran exiles Jon into the Night's Watch to prevent a war with the Unsullied, the Stark siblings bid him a final farewell on the docks of King's Landing. Arya informs them all that she has decided to sail to the west of Westeros, where no one has ever gone before, fulfilling her promise to Lady Crane. When Jon asks if she has Needle with her, she assures him that she does. She later captains a ship flying the Stark sigil, and departs into uncharted waters.
Arya's list logically only contains those whom she knows have committed crimes against her or her family. Despite committing great crimes against her family, Littlefinger was never included in her kill list; after Bran revealed his betrayal towards their father Arya did kill him, but on Sansa's orders. Roose Bolton was never included because she was unaware that he was present at the Red Wedding, much less that he personally killed Robb. She is also unaware of the fact that Roose's son, Ramsay, sacked Winterfell (and later killed Rickon). Arya also hasn't included Theon Greyjoy for taking Winterfell in the first place and (allegedly) killing her brothers Bran and Rickon, because she wasn't aware that it happened while she was on the run. News of the fall of Winterfell only became widespread enough for her to hear of it after Ramsay recaptured the castle (in early Season 4) and supposedly killed Theon, thus he was never added to her list.
For a while, Arya added Melisandre, Beric Dondarrion, and Thoros of Myr to her list, because she was upset the Brotherhood Without Banners let Melisandre take Gendry away and postponed in taking her to her family in Riverrun. She later phased them out of her list, presumably because they didn't do anything remotely near what other people in the list had done. Also one of her main motivations for keeping Beric and Thoros on the list was that they released the Hound despite his crimes, which she later forgave. Arya later confirmed in Season 8's "A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms" that Beric was on her list for a little while, but not anymore.
Ilyn Payne, the executioner who beheaded her father, was also phased out of her list. Maybe it was because he was a hired hand, simply to follow orders like the Hound. Furthermore, Wilko Johnson, the actor who plays Ilyn Payne, had developed pancreatic cancer after Season 1, in which he almost died. After reprising his role in Season 2, he never returned to the series.
Following the deaths of Cersei and the Mountain, her list is officially complete.
Arya is a fiercely independent woman who is unconstrained by social expectations like gender roles, courtly virtues, class distinctions, and the expectations of her parents and siblings. A tomboy, she never aspired to be a "proper lady" as her older sister Sansa did. Before the series of events that shatter her innocence and destroy her support system, Arya is full of life, and she makes others smile just by virtue of her spirited indifference to rules. Arya prefers to choose and forge her own destiny rather than wed to a man and form a family, despite this, Arya dislikes being called as "a boy" and responds back correcting them saying that she is "a girl", but she also doesn't see herself as a Lady.
Once she begins the journey to King's Landing, however, she endures a constant stream of loss and trauma. As she watches her pet, sword instructor, friends, and family members taken from her one by one, she becomes increasingly detached towards murder and death. This is only exacerbated when she is captured by the Hound and is exposed to his fatalistic worldview as they traverse the war-ravaged Riverlands, though the two develop a mutual reliance and almost grudging respect for each other. When she witnesses and learns of the betrayal and murder of her family at the Red Wedding, she becomes colder and her urge to seek revenge on those who have wronged her and her family increases.
While she is initially horrified when she accidentally stabs the stableboy in King's Landing during the betrayal of her father and his men, by the time she and the Hound have fled the massacre at the Twins, she is able to kill without remorse and has accepted Syrio's belief that the only true god is Death. Following Yoren's advice to her before he died, she has taken to listing off the names of each person she intends to kill each night before she sleeps.
Arya can be a rather cold-blooded and slightly sadistic person at times, especially while confronting and killing those who are on her death list. Though she was initially apathetic but satisfied with killing Meryn Trant and Polliver, she did not attempt to hide her glee over slitting Walder Frey's throat, or the pleasure of seeing his family dying from poisoned wine she gave them. While she certainly possesses compassion and kindness, her time with The Hound and the Faceless Men have taught her to be ruthless to those who have wronged her and her family and has shown to be willing to use psychological mind games to worsen her enemies fate before killing them. This is shown when she repeated every word Polliver said to Lommy before killing him in the same exact way with Needle; gouged the eyes of Ser Meryn before stabbing him repeatedly and butchering Lord Walder's sons before serving their corpses to their father inside of a pie.
That being said, Arya is not completely blinded by revenge. After learning that her family has retaken Winterfell, she ultimately chooses reuniting with her loved ones over vengeance against her enemies (at least for the time being).
Arya seems to prefer staying out of politics. During a war meeting, planning for the Battle of King's Landing, Arya was clearly distrustful of Daenerys when she wanted northern troops to fight immediately. However, she did not actively speak out against her, preferring to let Sansa speak on her behalf. Later, instead of taking any action involving the truth about Jon's true parentage, she instead rides with the Hound to King's Landing to kill Cersei. Later, during the council meeting to elect the next monarch Arya withholds her vote for Bran since Sansa declares the North an independent kingdom and only speaks to threaten Yara when she suggests letting the unsullied keep Jon. All of this speaks to her preferring to let Sansa speak for her family on political matters and for her to focus on confronting threats to her family, friends, and herself in a more direct matter, outside of politics.
Spoken by Arya
Spoken about Arya
Maisie Williams plays Arya as left-handed, but the actress is actually right-handed.
In the novels, Arya is left-handed. Maisie Williams is right-handed, but plays Arya as left-handed to be true to the books, including learning how to fight with a sword in her left hand. Maisie's mother discovered that Arya is left-handed while reading the books, and urged her to play Arya left-handed, for fear that if she didn't, hardcore fans of the books would be outraged and instantly reject her performance.
When Arya goes blind in the Season 5 finale, continuing into Season 6, the clouded look in her eyes is not a CGI effect at all: Maisie Williams actually wore large, 16 millimeter-wide contact lenses, hand-painted so they were murky. They did not simply give her eyes the appearance of being blind, but cannot be seen through. Thus when Arya is wildly turning around unable to see her surroundings, Williams truly couldn't see anything, and thus gave a genuine performance of being blinded.
Williams stated in an April 2016 interview that she was not given a choice between using a CGI effect or the blinding-contacts: the production team told her to use the blinding-contacts from the start. She went on to explain that the true blindness contacts were only used in closeups or when she was standing still (such as the Season 5 finale). Otherwise, when she had to stumble around while "blind" in Season 6, she switched to contacts which had tiny pinprick holes in the center so she could still see, so she wouldn't harm herself or others (some of her scenes involved fighting with a stick while "blind"). The times when she is moving around and wearing the alternate contacts she can actually see through were then simply filmed in wide-shots so the camera wouldn't pick up the difference - but then she would switch back to the full-blindness contact lenses again for closeups and dialogue-heavy shots without much motion in them.
Kristina Baskett was a stunt double for Maisie Williams in the role of Arya Stark.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Arya is portrayed in much darker manner than in the show. As her plotline progresses, she gradually loses her humanity, to the point she murders people without any provocation.
Arya is nine years old when King Robert arrives at Winterfell. She is a tomboy who wants to learn how to fight with a sword and ride horses, to the horror of her more demure older sister, Sansa, with whom she has a quarrelsome relationship. She is encouraged by her half-brother Jon, to whom she is close. Sansa and Arya are so unalike that Sansa once asked their mother if her real sister was stolen by a grumkin and Arya was left in her place. Arya is the only one of the Starks' trueborn children who resembles their father in appearance. Jon also inherited the Stark look, like Arya and their father, which once caused Arya to wonder whether she was also a bastard, but Jon assured her that she is trueborn. Arya has Eddard's long and solemn face, her hair is lusterless brown, which results in her being called Arya Horseface by her sister and her sister's friends. She is also known as Arya Underfoot by the Winterfell staff, as she is always curious and always where she isn't supposed to be. In the TV series, she is a good shot with a bow. In the novels, she does not know how to use a bow and isn't strong enough to even pull back the string, but wishes she could. She does, however, skilled in household management and horseback riding (in contrast to Sansa).
According to Catelyn, Ned's visitors would often mistake Arya for a stableboy if they rode into the yard unannounced. Arya was a trial, half a boy and half a wolf pup. She collected scabs as other girls collect dolls, and would say anything that came into her head. If someone forbade her anything, it became her heart's desire. Her hair always looked as though a bird has been nesting in it. Catelyn despaired of ever making a lady of her.
Yoren does not tell Arya the story about Willem and how he came to be part of the Night's Watch. Reciting the names of her enemies is something that she starts doing on her own. Yoren does tell her that her father was not supposed to die that day. The reason Yoren was in the Sept of Baelor and not already on the road is because he was told by Varys, the same man that came bringing Gendry, that Lord Eddard was to be given mercy, allowed to take the black, and would be traveling back with him to the Wall. When he says something must have gone wrong, Arya replies, "Joffrey. Someone should kill him."
During Season 2 of the TV series, she serves as Tywin's cupbearer. In the novels, she serves Roose Bolton, who captured Harrenhal from Amory Lorch after Tywin leaves with his army to defend the Westerlands. Thus, none of the scenes between Tywin and Arya happened in the books. She still flees from Harrenhal with Gendry and Hot Pie, but she does so without using Jaqen H'ghar's help; though in the novels she does use Jaqen's help to open Harrenhal to Roose Bolton and the Northmen.
Arya's storyline at Harrenhal in Season 2 was heavily condensed from the books. After being captured by Ser Gregor Clegane's men, she is exposed to rape and murder on a regular basis. She is also abused and forced to work at Harrenhal, cleaning, serving men-at-arms at meals, and running errands for an under-steward name Weese, who beats her. When Jaqen H'ghar gives her the opportunity to kill three men, the first one she picks is a man-at-arms for Gregor Clegane named Chiswyck, because she overheard him telling a story, laughing about how he and Clegane's men had gang-raped an innkeeper's daughter. The second name she chooses is Weese. The TV series changed this so that instead, Arya chooses the Tickler and Amory Lorch, who are not killed by Jaqen in the book.
Arya's third and final choice was similar but somewhat condensed from what happened in the books. In the TV series, she asks Jaqen to help her escape, so he kills the Lannister guards. In the books, Arya asks Jaqen to help her free a large number of Northern prisoners-of-war who are being held at the castle. Jaqen refuses at first, then Arya chooses him as the third man to die. Jaqen asks her to change her choice, and she agrees on the condition that he helps her free the prisoners. He enlists the help of Rorge and Biter. They get large pots of boiling soup as the prisoners' dinner, but when they get to the dungeons, they throw the boiling-hot soup on the guards and slay them, free and arm the prisoners, and take Harrenhal from the Lannister forces. This is remembered as the "weasel soup" incident, because at the time, Arya was using the alias "Weasel" (naming herself after a little girl she took care of earlier in the book before being captured). Soon afterward, Jaqen leaves, after giving Arya the coin. He explains that if she ever needs to find him again, she should give the coin to any man from Braavos and say "valar morghulis."
Roose Bolton becomes the master of Harrenhal as a result, and Arya becomes his cupbearer. Arya does not leave because she feels safe with the Northern soldiers, but at the same time she still keeps her true identity secret because she isn't sure if she can trust them yet. She overhears Roose and his men discussing the fall of Winterfell and Bran and Rickon's deaths, and refuses to believe the news. Arya continues serving Roose until she finds out that he is leaving Harrenhal in the hands of Vargo Hoat, a particularly cruel sellsword, and that she will remain there with him. Unsure of what to do, she goes to the castle's godswood and prays to the old gods. The weirwood face responds to her with her father's voice, reminding her that she is Arya Stark and she must be strong. In response, she enacts her escape from Harrenhal, bringing along Gendry and Hot Pie, with the intention of reaching her family at Riverrun. She kills the guard at the gate to get out and they ride away on stolen horses.
Arya technically gained the title of "princess" when her brother Robb was declared the new King in the North. While her brothers Bran and Rickon use the title of "prince" among the Northerners at Winterfell, Arya's storyline takes her on the run through the Riverlands as it is torn apart in the war between the Starks and Lannisters, so that she is usually keeping her true name a secret, let alone her title. Thus she normally isn't referred to as "princess", or at least not in her surroundings. Robb, Catelyn, and the Freys refer to her as a "princess" when brokering their marriage-alliance.
Ironically, she meets her Frey husband-to-be (Elmar Frey) while serving under Roose Bolton, and he spends time talking at length to Arya about his promised princess, unknowingly speaking to her personally. He tries to boss Arya around, but she does not comply. After being informed that Robb breached the pact with the Freys, Elmar tells Arya whiningly that his father told him he had to marry someone else, or to become a septon. Arya tries to empathize with him, telling him two of her brothers are dead. But when he responds derisively, she loses all sympathy for him.
By this point in the novels, Arya is presumed dead by most people in Westeros, including her mother and older brother. Tyrion tells his father that Varys and Jacelyn Bywater searched for her for more than half a year, but in vain. When Catelyn asks Cleos Frey, who has been acting as an envoy ferrying peace terms between Robb and Tyrion, for news of her daughters, she is disturbed when Cleos only mentions seeing Sansa at court. Catelyn wonders whether Arya, always more difficult to control than Sansa, is being deliberately kept out of sight by Cersei for fear of what she might do or say, or if something even worse has happened to her. The belief that Arya is dead, along with the news of the apparent deaths of Bran and Rickon, is what prompts Catelyn to release Jaime in the hope that her last daughter can be returned to her. Later, Robb bluntly states that his youngest sister is probably dead, since no one has seen her since their father's death, and as a result, he names his half-brother Jon Snow as his heir should he die without issue.
In the third novel, Arya leads Gendry and Hot Pie through the Riverlands in the hope of reaching Riverrun. They use a map she stole from Roose to guide them. Roose sends men after them, but when Arya sleeps, she wargs into Nymeria who attacks the men sent to capture Arya along with the giant wolf pack she now leads. While they're on their way, the Brotherhood Without Banners comes upon them and coerces them into coming with them to an inn that's used as one of the headquarters. Once there, outlaws plan on taking their horses and giving the three children over to the care of the innkeeper, with the promise of paying for the horses they're taking once the war is done. Arya attempts to negotiate with them, hoping to trade their horses for a boat they saw outside the inn. The arrival of more outlaws scares Arya into fighting to get away, only for her to realize one of the new outlaws is Harwin, a former member of the Stark Household guard. He reveals who she is to the Brotherhood and they take her in search of Beric Dondarrion, who will decide whether to ransom her. Arya parts with Hot Pie, who remains at the inn, but Gendry continues on with her.
In the books, Arya describes Gendry as her "only true friend." The two form some bond after Arya entrusts Gendry with her true identity, though Arya was ready to kill him. Although their relationship in the novels is platonic, there are several hints the point towards a romantic relationship. Arya becomes jealous when Bella, a prostitute, offers to have sex with Gendry, who rejects this offer. Gendry also becomes jealous when Edric Dayne shows interest in Arya, which is heightened by their class difference. There is also a love song that only appears once in the series, which is after Arya and Gendry playfully wrestle in the forge. The TV series didn't overtly play up a full-fledged "romance" between the two, though Gendry becomes one of Arya's few friends and, as in the novels, she is pained when he chooses to stay behind with the Brotherhood.
As they travel in search of Beric, Arya sees more of the results of war in the Riverlands and meets other branches of the Brotherhood. During their stay in a town, another member of the Brotherhood captures the Hound and it is decided that he will be brought before Beric as well to receive judgement. Once they reach the hollow hill where Beric is hiding, the Hound insists that he is innocent of all the crimes thrown at him. But Arya insists that he is guilty of the murder of Mycah. Beric fights him in a trial by combat and loses to the Hound. Thus, the Brotherhood lets the Hound go, but takes his gold to buy food for the smallfolk. Arya is furious that he is allowed to go free even though he is guilty. The Hound follows the Brotherhood after they leave the hollow hill on their journey to take Arya to Riverrun, and confronts them demanding his money back. They refuse and continue on their journey.
The group stops at High Heart where a woods witch known as the Ghost of High Heart looks at Arya closely (in the show she is replaced with Melisandre). She becomes frightened and whimpers: "I see you, wolf child. Blood child. I thought it was the lord who smelled of death... you are cruel to come to my hill, cruel. I gorged on grief at Summerhall, I need none of yours. Begone from here, dark heart. Begone!." Arya wonders if the woman is mad. She also gives them other prophecies, among them about the Red Wedding and Catelyn's resurrection. When they move away from High Heart, Thoros looks in his flames and sees that Catelyn isn't at Riverrun and there is something dangerous happening that they don't understand. They plan to take Arya to Brynden Tully instead, at which point she angrily runs off, devastated that the Brotherhood prevented her from reaching Riverrun while he mother was still there.
At this point, the Hound, who had continued to follow the Brotherhood, captures her, planning to get her to the Twins so he can collect her ransom from Robb. When they reach the Twins, the wedding is already over and the feast has commenced. Before they can get very far, the Freys and Boltons begin attacking the loyal Northerners. Arya attempts to get into the castle anyway in the hopes of rescuing Catelyn, but the Hound knocks her out and carries her off. When she wakes, Arya insists on going back for her mother, but the Hound refuses. When Arya wargs into Nymeria again while she sleeps, she finds Catelyn's body in the river and pulls her out. This allows her to accept that her mother is dead and Arya goes into a depression. The Hound plans to take her to the Eyrie to sell her to Lysa Arryn, but he is warned against due to how dangerous it would be to travel through the Vale unprotected.
When Arya learns of Joffrey's death in the novels, she is not happy about it, not because she wasn't the one to kill him or watch as she wishes in the TV series, but because Joffrey's death doesn't matter as much since Robb was dead too. Also, in the novels, Arya and the Hound do not encounter Brienne and Pod, nor do they encounter Rorge and Biter. At the Crossroads Inn, Arya and The Hound fight Polliver, the Tickler and a Sarsfield squire. Arya kills the Tickler (who is assassinated at Harrenhal by Jaqen in the series) and the squire, but it is the Hound who kills Polliver. The Hound is severely injured during the fight, his wounds fester and he falls from his horse. After this, Arya refuses to give him a merciful death, and leaves him to die on his own. She does not take his silver (but later wishes she had). She rides to the Saltpans and searches for a ship that will take her to Jon at the Wall. All she can find is a ship headed to Braavos, which she boards using the coin Jaqen gave her.
In A Feast for Crows, once she arrives in Braavos, Arya is escorted to the House of Black and White, where she searches for Jaqen and a safe place to stay. Instead of another man posing as Jaqen, she is greeted by a figure she can only identify as the "kindly man." The coin she presents gains her entry into initiation training with the Faceless Men.
The kindly man tells Arya the House of Black and White is not a home for orphans, and if she wants to remain - she must be obedient at all times and in all things. They can find better jobs and places for her, like a service in the household of some merchant; they can find her a husband of her choice; or send her to train to become a courtesan; they can give her passage back to Westeros. Arya insists on staying.
At the kindly man's demand, Arya dissociates herself of her past and possessions. The only thing she keeps is Needle which she views as her connection to her family and home. She hides the sword with the intention of reclaiming it one day. She performs various chores at the House, spending much time with the Waif and Umma the cook. One day, the kindly man orders Arya to work for a fishmonger named Brusco, in order to master the Braavosi tongue. During her first tasks, Arya struggles to abandon her previous identity, trying to use new names such as Cat of the Canals.
While working for Brusco, she befriends a lot of people, learns to master the Braavosi language, and hears many secrets. Occasionally she returns to the House and tells the kindly man three new things she learned - gossip, rumors, interesting pieces of information, professional secrets, etc. The work is hard, but Arya does not complain. Her wolf dreams continue despite the distance between her and Nymeria. Brusco's daughters even note that she growls in her sleep sometimes.
During her time as Cat, Arya learns of her aunt's death. She is indifferent to hear that, as something that's associated with someone else.
Around this time, Arya crosses paths with Sam on his way to Oldtown and saves him from two bullies. Sam tells Arya his name, but she does not reveal her true identity, thus they remain in the dark about their mutual connection to Jon Snow, and the opportunity for a reunion of Starks is lost. By meeting Sam, Arya also recognizes a Night's Watch deserter (Sam's companion) who spends a good deal of time with her Braavosi friends. At first, she plans to ask him to take her back to the Wall with him so she can reunite with Jon, but Dareon announces that he plans to make a life for himself in Braavos. Arya kills him, and since he never harmed her - she excuses the deed by claiming that he broke his vows; she ignores the fact that they are out of Westeros, and that she dissociated herself from her past - thus she has no right to kill the deserter. For this, she is given warm milk by the kindly man, and wakes up the next morning blind.
In A Dance with Dragons, Arya continues to train with the Faceless Men without her sight. The blindness is induced by the milk she drinks every night. The kindly man tells her that they would have taken her eyes from her anyway, to help her to learn to use her other senses, but not for half a year. She begs at the streets, calling herself "Blind Beth", collecting money and pieces of information (among them about the two Lyseni pirate ships, Goodheart and Elephant, which were indirectly involved in the massacre at Hardhome) and continues performing chores at the House. Occasionally she hears people talk about "The Black Bastard of the Wall." That makes her sad, thinking that even Jon would never know Blind Beth. Sometimes she hurts herself, but does not complain. She misses the company of Brusco and her friends, though. The Waif tells her she must stay blind "Until darkness is as sweet to you as light, or until you ask us for your eyes" (in that case she will be sent away). Arya does not give up, and gradually learns to rely on her other senses. These senses include not only the conventional sense, but also her skinchanging abilities. Arya begins to skinchange into a cat who follows her around Braavos. Occasionally, someone (it turns to be the kindly man) beats her with a stick. She uses knowledge gained through the cat's eyes to impress the kindly man, telling him that she knows it has been him who is hitting her but without mentioning the cat. Apparently, this completes her blind training, because then she is given her eyesight back.
After Arya regains her eyesight, The Kindly Man gives Arya her first assignment - to kill the old insurance seller. Arya is uncertain whether to fulfill her mission, since her intended victim has never wronged her, her friends or her family, and she does not even know whether he did anything that he deserves death for. She comes up with very ridiculous reasons to kill him (he outlived her father, his hands are shaking, etc.), perhaps to ease her conscience. At last she kills him, then the Kindly Man orders her to go to Izembaro to begin her first apprenticeship. Unlike in the show, she is not ordered to kill any of the actors (at least not yet), and it is unclear for what purpose she was ordered to join the troupe. She takes on the new identity of Mercy and learns acting with the troupe. While she is there, she notices Rafford and kills him, without being ordered to, thus avenging Lommy's death.
Arya is often asked by the Kindly man, the waif and other characters "who are you?" and she answers "no one." They nearly always respond with "you lie", implying she has not yet let go of her past identity, thus unfit to join the Faceless Men. Arya has been using many false names during her plotline, among them: Arry, Weasel, Nan, Squab, Salty, Cat of the Canals, Beth, the lastly - Mercedene/Mercy; perhaps it symbolizes Arya's gradual loss of identity. Despite this, she retains her true identity as Arya Stark. This is brought up several times with her inner monologue where she says she was never any of those identities for true and by the Faceless Men who say she wears the other identities as one would wear a dress, but beneath those she is still Arya.
Meanwhile, in the North, Jeyne Poole, is forced by the Lannisters (at Littlefinger's advice) to pose as Arya, who is considered dead, and is betrothed to Ramsay Bolton in order to strengthen the Boltons' claim on the North. This political move brings some Northerners to their side in support of "Arya", while other Northerners joined Stannis Baratheon's forces in order to rescue her from them. The belief that his sister is being forced to marry Ramsay also torments Jon. Repeatedly, he reminds himself that as a member of the Night's Watch, he must put aside past ties to his family but finds he is unable to truly do so. When Melisandre offers him the chance to save his sister, Jon accepts and Melisandre sends Mance Rayder with a group of spearwives to save Arya. When Melisandre tells him that she has seen a vision of Arya traveling to the Wall on a dying horse to escape this marriage, Jon tries to prepare for how he will take care of Arya now - as much as he wants to keep her with him, it is not safe for her and debates finding a noble family to foster her across the sea, where she will be safest. However, the girl escaping her marriage turns out to be their distant relation Alys Karstark, whom Jon helps. The plan with Mance and the spearwives leads to Jeyne Poole's escape with Theon. In response, Ramsay (or someone who pretends to be him) sends a letter threatening Jon, demanding "Arya"'s return, and claiming that Stannis is dead. This eventually leads to a mutiny against Jon when he decides to leave Castle Black to rescue who he believes is Arya from the Boltons and confront Ramsay. The real Arya has no idea of these events.
Arya's death list in the books is partially different than in the show, both the names, the manner by which some of they die, and their killers:
Arya begins reciting the names of the first twelve people on her list while being taken to Harrenhal. Soon after she starts working there under Weese's supervision, she adds him, and this is the end of her list because he is beating her. Sometimes she says the phrase "Valar Morghulis", which she learned from Jaqen, along with her list. So far, four of the people are still alive, two (the Cleganes) are in uncertain status, and seven are confirmed dead. In the books, Melisandre never retrieved Gendry from the Brotherhood Without Banners, so the Red Woman, Beric, and Thoros aren't on the list. She also does not add "Walder Frey" to her list: rather, she states that she would have added "the Freys" to her list - any and all of them who took part in the Red Wedding - but she wasn't sure which ones specifically took part in it and which ones didn't.
In sharp contrast to Arya's "sugarcoated" portrayal in the show, in the books she gradually loses her humanity, her soul growing darker to the point that she kills people who have never done her any harm. It may be the result of the hell Arya has been through: forced to kill in self-defense; watching her father being unjustly executed while she is powerless to do anything; traveling in the company of questionable people (Yoren's caravan, the Brotherhood and the Hound); helplessly watching people being slaughtered like sheep on the way to Harrenhal; running away from one captivity to another; held at the mercy of inhuman monsters like the Mountain and Vargo Hoat; the last straw might have been the duel between Beric and the Hound, which made Arya realize there is such thing as justice - the only rule is "might makes right."
As Arya's plotline progresses and her soul grows darker, murder becomes her prime solution for every encounter; before she kills a guard at Harrenhal, she does not consider other options, like sneaking past him or knocking him unconscious. Only if the objective circumstances do not allow her to commit a murder (when she considers killing Gendry and a woman who cheats her at Saltpans) - she tries less violent way. In the fourth and fifth novels, she murders people who have not done her, her family or friends any ill - Dareon and the old insurance seller. Unlike Ramsay, Arya does not draw a sadistic pleasure from killing; it has become a need for her, the way a vampire needs blood. It seems she does not really care whom she kills; if someone from her death list happens to be nearby (Rafford), she'd kill him, but she is no hurry to look for those who are responsible for the destruction of her house.
The World of Ice & Fire source book released in 2014 revealed that Arya was named after Eddard's maternal grandmother, Arya Flint, from the northern mountain clans. The main novels did mention that Eddard's grandmother was from the mountain clans but didn't state her name. These clans have no connection to the hill tribes of the Vale whom Tyrion encounters on the way from the Eyrie; they are minor Houses loyal to Winterfell who live in the northwestern highlands. They are a hardy folk, both due to their rough lands, and because they are located near the coast, vulnerable to attack by sea from both the ironborn and the wildlings. Like House Mormont, also located just off the northwest coast and vulnerable to these attacks, many women in the clans often have to take up arms to fight off raiders. These clans join Stannis in his military campaign against the ironborn and the Boltons.
Arya is one of the main characters which appear in all five published novels (alongside Jaime, Cersei, Sam, and Jon); she is the only book character which has POV chapters in all the novels (and in the sixth upcoming novel too).
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Arya" is pronounced "ARE - yuh." George R.R. Martin himself has pointed out that a surprisingly large number of people pronounce it incorrectly: it consists of two syllables, not three (like how the "aria" of an opera is pronounced). Martin explained: "I say it 'Are-ya', two syllables not three. Not 'are-ee-uh', not like an operatic thing, but 'Are-ya', very sharp. I wanted something that was like a knife, that was a sharp and hard sound, to be a contrast to the flowery 'Sansa'."
King Bran I the Broken, born Brandon Stark and commonly known simply as "Bran," is the fourth child and second son of Eddard and Catelyn Stark. Bran is a warg and a greenseer serving as the new Three-Eyed Raven. Eventually, he was crowned as the first elected ruler of the Six Kingdoms, styled as Bran the Broken, the First of His Name, King of the Andals and the First Men, Lord of the Six Kingdoms, and Protector of the Realm.
Bran is the fourth child and second son of Lady Catelyn and Lord Ned Stark of Winterfell.
Bran was born and raised at Winterfell. He has an older brother Robb, a younger brother Rickon, two older sisters Sansa and Arya, and an older "bastard half-brother", Jon Snow, who is actually Bran's first cousin by his aunt Lyanna Stark. Bran was named for Ned's elder brother, Brandon, who was brutally executed by the Mad King along with Bran's paternal grandfather Rickard Stark. He is only called "Brandon" by his mother when he has done something wrong. Bran dreams of being a knight of the Kingsguard, and his favorite hobby is climbing the walls of Winterfell, using its old rooftops and passageways to get around.
Bran practices archery under his brothers' guidance.
Bran is being trained by his father, brothers and the castle's staff in leadership and combat. Bran is considered old enough to see some of the uglier sides of life, and his father takes him to see a deserter from the Night's Watch being executed. The Starks find a litter of direwolf pups and Ned reluctantly agrees to let his children adopt them because they are the symbol of their House. Bran eventually settles on naming his direwolf Summer. King Robert Baratheon's party arrives at Winterfell, and Ned agrees to act as the Hand of the King and accompany Robert back to King's Landing, and to take Bran, Sansa and Arya with him.
Jaime pushes Bran after discovering him and Cersei.
During Robert's visit, Bran goes exploring. While climbing a decrepit tower, he catches the king's wife, Queen Cersei, and her twin brother, Jaime, engaged in sexual intercourse. To keep his silence, Jaime pushes him out of the tower window.
Summer defends a comatose Bran.
Bran survives the fall, but is left comatose, forcing Ned to leave him in Winterfell. While he is unconscious an assassin attempts to kill him. Catelyn struggles with the man until Summer arrives and rips out the would-be assassin's throat. Summer then stands guard at the end of Bran's bed. Bran awakens with no memory of what happened some weeks later, at the same moment as his father is forced to kill Sansa's direwolf, Lady.
Old Nan tells Bran about the winter.
After Catelyn leaves for King's Landing, Old Nan sits by Bran’s bedside to watch him. She offers to tell him the story of Duncan the Tall and Bran replies that he hates her stories —he prefers the scary ones. She retorts that he is a "sweet summer child" who knows nothing about fear, and tells him that fear is for the winter and for the Long Night, a winter season thousands of years ago that lasted a generation, in which those who didn't freeze to death had to face the White Walkers, who ventured south for the first time and swept through Westeros. They are interrupted by Robb, and Bran asks him if it is true he will never walk again. Sadly, Robb says yes. Bran says that he would rather be dead, to Robb's distress.
Tyrion speaks with Bran.
Bran begins to have a recurring dream in which a three-eyed raven flies into the crypts of Winterfell. He is awoken to meet with Tyrion, who has stopped at Winterfell on his way home. Out of his regard for Jon, Tyrion has designed a special saddle that will allow Bran to ride despite his injuries.
Luwin tutors Bran.
Bran takes a lesson on the sigils and mottoes of the Great Houses from Maester Luwin, who is confident that Tyrion's saddle will work. Luwin also suggests that Bran could learn to use a shortbow from horseback, in the manner of the Dothraki. Bran bitterly analyses the irony of house words and refutes Luwin's assertion that his mother will return home soon, but Luwin relents that he cannot tell him why she has left Winterfell.
Bran is held hostage by Stiv.
After having another dream about the Three-Eyed Raven, Bran tries out his new saddle on a ride in the godswood and is thrilled to find that it works. While riding, he is attacked by wildlings led by Stiv. He tells them he is unable to get off the saddle due to the design of the straps, allowing them to see his crippled status. During the ambush, he is cut by Wallen on his upper left leg, allowing him to discover that he is immune to pain as well as immobile. Robb and Theon Greyjoy defend Bran, killing Stiv and the other wildlings apart from Osha, who surrenders.
Robert Baratheon dies after being injured by a boar while hunting in a drunken state. Ned challenges the legitimacy of Robert's heir, Joffrey, with evidence of Cersei's infidelity and is arrested. Bran says farewell to Robb when he leads the Stark armies to war in response. He also tries unsuccessfully to reassure Rickon that Robb will return. He prays in the godswood for their safe return. Bran is joined by Osha, now a servant of Winterfell, who tells him that Robb's army is marching the wrong way and the true threat lies to the north, Beyond the Wall.
Bran is told of his father's death.
Bran tells Osha of his dreams featuring the Three-Eyed Raven as he rides on her shoulders, saying that he saw his father in the crypts. Osha is skeptical. Bran taunts her about her fear of the catacombs and eventually she agrees to take him down to the crypt. Bran recites the names of his deceased relatives as they pass them. They approach the place where Ned was in Bran’s dream. There, they are startled by Shaggydog and Rickon. Rickon has also dreamt of their father in that spot. Osha and Bran go back to the surface and Osha attempts to soothe Bran’s worries about his father. As they exit the crypts, they cross paths with Maester Luwin who reveals that Ned has been executed for treason.
Hodor walks to Godswood, with Bran in tow.
Bran continues to experience strange dreams as he is tutored in leadership at Winterfell by Maester Luwin. He dreams that he is Summer as the direwolf roams the Godswood and sees his reflection in the pond there. He has Osha accompany him out to look in the pond himself and is reassured that his waking reflection is his own, aware of the Red Comet above him. Osha tells him multiple theories that she had heard, before stating that it is a symbol of the return of dragons to the known world. However, Bran states that all the dragons are dead.
Bran wakes looking into Summer's eyes.
He again dreams that he is the wolf. This time Summer enters his bedchamber and he sees himself awakening through the wolf's eyes. He discusses the dream with Maester Luwin who reassures him that magic has been absent from the world for centuries. However, he does mention that he once heard of beings who could implement themselves in the minds of animals.
Bran sits at the high table as Lord of Winterfell.
Bran dreams of the Three-Eyed Raven again and seeks advice from Osha. She questions him further and he reveals another dream about the sea flooding Winterfell and drowning Winterfell and its people, including Ser Rodrik Cassel. She does not offer any explanation and leaves abruptly. After providing two orphans to a farmer in return for room and board, Ser Rodrik brings news that Torrhen's Square has been besieged and Bran orders him to take the remaining garrison to relieve the siege.
Bran surrenders Winterfell to Theon.
Bran is awoken by Theon, who tells him that he has seized Winterfell. Theon tells Bran that he should yield the castle to protect his people. Bran reluctantly complies with a public announcement. Rodrik is captured on his return from Torrhen's Square. He insults Theon, calling him a traitor to Ned, and spits at him. Theon is pressured to execute him by his men. Theon ignores Bran's pleas and carries out a botched execution. Osha tells Bran that his dream came true; the Iron Islands (represented as the sea in the dream) have come to Winterfell. Bran escapes with Osha's help. They are accompanied by his brother Rickon, their direwolves and Hodor.
Bran and Rickon in the catacombs beneath Winterfell.
They flee as far as a nearby farm. Theon tracks them with hounds but loses their scent at the farm. He returns to Winterfell with two charred corpses, displaying them publicly and claiming that they are Bran and Rickon. Meanwhile, Bran and Rickon doubled back, using a stream to mask their scent and are hiding under Theon's nose in the crypts of Winterfell. Bran overhears Luwin telling Osha that the bodies must be Jack and Billy, the two orphan boys that he had previously assigned to assist a shepherd.
Bran leaves Winterfell behind.
They remain in hiding as Winterfell is besieged by an army of Northmen. The ironborn flee and the Starks emerge from the crypts to find that their home has been sacked and abandoned. They find Luwin dying in the Godswood and he urges them to go north to find their half-brother Jon at Castle Black who will protect them. Bran makes a tearful farewell to his mentor and they follow his last piece of counsel.
Bran is on the road to Castle Black, along with his brother Rickon, Osha, Hodor and the direwolves, Summer and Shaggydog, in order to seek shelter with his "half-brother", Jon Snow. Bran continues to dream about chasing the Three-Eyed Raven, but encounters in his dream a strange boy. He attempts to shoot the raven, but the boy tells Bran that he cannot shoot the raven, because he is the raven. Bran awakens suddenly, worrying Hodor for a moment but he says that he is fine. Osha says they have enough problems without black magic dreams. Bran, Rickon, Osha, Hodor, and the direwolves Summer and Shaggydog continue to head north from Winterfell to the Wall.
Bran meets Jojen and Meera.
Later, he meets Jojen Reed and his sister, Meera. Jojen possesses "the sight", the rare gift of seeing the past and present through his dreams, and is able to speak with Bran through their dreams. Jojen also saw the Three-Eyed Raven, who is apparently responsible for bringing the sight to them, and tells Bran he is a 'Warg', someone who can control the minds of animals. Osha is distrustful of the siblings.
Bran and Jojen share a greensight dream.
Bran is having a shared greensight dream with Jojen Reed. They are walking through the woods and see the Three-Eyed Raven again. Jojen advises Bran that he must follow the raven, and when he is confused, Jojen points out that he must follow it by climbing a tree. Bran begins to climb the tree that the raven has landed in but he soon becomes terrified, remembering the fall that crippled him when he was climbing a tower at Winterfell.
He sees a vivid dream-memory of his mother Catelyn, repeating her warning in which she made him promise never to climb again; a promise which he broke, and thus indirectly led to the fall which crippled him. Bran is so terrified of the memory of Catelyn yelling at him that he falls off the tree. Bran and Jojen wake in their camp in the woods, disappointed that he could not follow the Three-Eyed Raven.
Bran solves a dispute between Osha and Meera.
Tensions rise at camp between Osha and Meera Reed before Bran diffuses the situation. Jojen Reed experiences a seizure while sleeping, and Meera explains they are caused by his visions. Jojen then tells Bran that in his vision he saw Jon with the wildlings.
Bran and Jojen listen to Osha's story.
On their way to the Wall, Bran's party makes camp. Osha remains distrustful of Meera and Jojen Reed and reacts with horror when they mention they intend to go beyond the Wall. Osha bluntly refuses to go, explaining that she lost her husband, who then rose from the dead and tried to kill her. She rages that none of them understand what lies beyond the Wall and that there is nothing left for men there. However, Bran agrees with Jojen, arguing that the raven has been waiting for him to find him since Bran fell from the tower.
Bran skinchanges into Hodor's mind, calming him down.
After seeking shelter in a derelict windmill during a rainstorm, the group notices a band of wildlings chasing down an old man. The sounds of thunder terrify Hodor, who shouts out in panic. Fearing discovery, Jojen tells Bran to silence Hodor, who keeps panicking. Bran unintentionally uses his Warg powers to render Hodor unconscious. With the wildlings still outside, Jojen convinces Bran to skinchange through Summer and Shaggydog outside, who then mauls some of the wildlings to death.
While in control of Summer and Shaggydog, Bran tells Rickon he saw their half-brother Jon outside fighting the wildlings but assures Rickon that Jon got away. Osha says Jon will be heading to Castle Black and they should as well but Bran insists that he must go beyond the Wall to find the three-eyed raven. However, he wants Rickon to be safe, so he tells Osha to take his brother with her to the holdfast of Greatjon Umber, a loyal bannerman of the Starks. Bran bids a tearful Rickon farewell, who leaves with Osha and Shaggydog, while Bran continues northward with Hodor, Summer and the Reed siblings.
At last, they make it to the Wall and stay overnight in the Nightfort, an abandoned castle on the Wall that is rumored to be haunted. During the night, Jon's fellow Night's Watch comrade Samwell Tarly, with Gilly and her child, emerge from a secret passageway.
Bran and the group go beyond the Wall.
Samwell, noticing the gigantic Hodor and Summer, realizes who Bran is and offers to take them to Castle Black, but Jojen tells Sam that they are going beyond the Wall, as no force in the realm of Westeros could withstand the threat posed by the White Walkers. Sam reluctantly shows them the secret sally port and gives them the obsidian blades found north of the Wall, which he earlier used to slay a White Walker. That night, Bran, the Reeds, Hodor and Summer finally pass beyond the Wall.
Bran prepares to skinchange with the Heart tree.
Bran, Hodor, Jojen, and Meera are north of the Wall and Bran is looking through Summer's eyes, now having the ability to look through him whenever he wants. They wake him up which angers Bran. They warn him that if he stays in the wolf too long, he will stay in Summer permanently and lose everything he has ever known. Later, Summer discovers a Heart tree, to which Bran request Hodor to carry him to it. Bran skinchanges with it and has a vision of another Heart tree on a hill, the Three-Eyed Raven, his father about to be executed, a flight of ravens, White walkers and wights, including a glimpse of the Night's King turning Craster's last son, the Iron Throne sitting empty with snow falling around it, himself falling from the tower, a dragon flying over King's Landing, and finally the same tree on a hill again, all while a strange voice tells him to find him "beneath the tree, North." Bran suddenly returns to his own consciousness and then tells the others that he knows where they have to go.
Bran is held as a prisoner at Craster's Keep.
Later, Bran and his companions are resting near Craster's Keep. They hear the faint sounds of a baby's cries. Bran enters the mind of Summer to investigate where he finds Ghost, Jon's direwolf. However, before he can free Ghost, Summer is caught by a trap. Against Meera's urgings, they go to rescue Summer and Ghost but are taken prisoner by Karl Tanner. While Hodor is being tormented by Rast and the other mutineers for pure amusement, Karl threatens to kill Jojen and Meera before Bran gives up his identity.
Bran makes a tough decision: choosing his brother or going north to fulfill his destiny.
Bran and the others are being held imprisoned in a tent. Karl enters the tent and ties up Meera and prepares to rape her. Jojen offers to help them, saying he possesses the sight. Karl refuses and just before he cuts Meera, Jon and members of the Night's Watch attack the keep. Locke, who serves Roose Bolton, searches for Bran and finds him and attempts to escape the keep with Bran as he has also been tasked with finding and killing Rickon as well. However, Bran wargs into Hodor, who escapes his binds and catches up to Locke. He lifts Locke off the ground and breaks his neck. Bran can see Jon and tries to crawl over to him to get his attention. Jojen arrives and intervenes, telling him that Jon will not let him search for the Three-Eyed Raven if he goes with Jon back to Castle Black. Bran agrees and prepares to leave.
Bran and his group eventually reach the giant weirwood tree on the hill, but are attacked by a group of wights. Jojen is fatally stabbed and Meera attempts to save him, but Jojen tells her to leave him for dead. They are helped by Leaf, a Child of the Forest who leads them into a cave after burning Jojen's body when Jojen dies. She explains that the wights cannot enter, as the magic that reanimates them has no power there. She then leads them deep into the cave to the Three-Eyed Raven, who is revealed to not be a bird but a very old man whose body is fused to the roots of the weirwood tree. Meera begins to tell him that Jojen has died and before she can finish the raven says that Jojen knew what would happen the moment he left, and went anyway. When Meera asks how he knows that, the raven says that he has been watching them for all of their lives with a thousand eyes and one. The raven tells Bran that the hour is late, and Bran replies that he did not want anyone to die for him. The raven states that Jojen died so that Bran could find what he lost. Bran asks if the raven will help him walk again. The raven answers that Bran will never walk again, but he will fly.
Bran is still largely believed to have died along with Rickon at the hands of Theon. When Sansa returns to Winterfell to be wed to Ramsay at the behest of Petyr Baelish, Ramsay initially forces Theon to keep up the charade and apologize to Sansa. Eventually, however, Sansa's fury at the belief Theon murdered her brothers eventually forces Theon to finally admit that he did not kill Bran and Rickon. Stunned by this admission, her anger towards Theon cools but when she asks if he knows where they might have gone to, he breaks down and leaves the room, fearful of what Ramsay will do if and when he finds out what he just told her. However, Sansa appears to be left with a sense of renewed hope by the revelation that Bran and Rickon, in addition to Jon, are still alive.
Using Greensight, Bran and the Three-Eyed Raven visit Winterfell in the past.
Bran continues his training under the Three-Eyed Raven. He and the raven watch a vision of his late father Ned and his uncle Benjen Stark as young boys training in the grounds of Winterfell by a young Rodrik Cassel. Bran also witnesses his late aunt Lyanna Stark as a young girl and a much younger Hodor. Through the vision, Bran learns that Hodor used to be a stable boy named "Wylis" before he became simpleton, who is carefully protected from harm by a middle-aged Old Nan. While Bran longs to stay in the vision, he is pulled out by the Three-Eyed Raven, who warns him that he may become too enamored with the past to want to return to reality. Bran finds Meera outside the cave, viewing the world beyond; still grieving over the loss of Jojen. Meera tells Bran that she was having trouble coping with their apparent inaction to the coming war. In response, Bran reminds her that it is no longer safe anywhere outside, to which Meera continues to spurn him. After Bran leaves, Leaf tells Meera of her importance to Bran's future.
In another vision, Bran and the Three-Eyed Raven view the events that unfolded at the Tower of Joy towards the end of Robert's Rebellion. Ned Stark rides to the Tower of Joy with five of his bannermen, one of them being Howland Reed, to find Lyanna Stark. The tower is guarded by two Kingsguard: Ser Arthur Dayne and Lord Commander Gerold Hightower. After the two refuse Ned's requests to learn his sister's fate, the eight men duel. While Gerold Hightower is killed early on, Arthur Dayne single-handedly defeats nearly all of Ned's retainers, and is about to kill Ned himself when Howland Reed unexpectedly stabs Dayne through the back of the neck, having been injured early on, but not killed. Bran is shocked that the stories he heard were not as honorable as the events that actually unfolded. Ned finishes off Dayne by partially decapitating him with his own sword, Dawn, and hears a woman scream from the tower. As Ned runs into the tower to find Lyanna, Bran calls out to him. Ned stops to look around, but is confused because he cannot find the source of the voice. Before Bran can discover what is in the tower for himself, the Three-Eyed Raven brings both of them out of the past. While he acknowledges that the younger Ned had heard Bran, he also warns Bran not to interfere with the past.
Bran discovers the origins of the White Walkers.
In another vision of the past, thousands of years ago, Bran and the Three-Eyed Raven witness several Children of the Forest, including Leaf, create the first White Walker. Once out of the vision and shocked at the revelation, Bran asks Leaf why they did it, and Leaf confesses it was to prevent the First Men from destroying more of their sacred weirwood trees and the extinction of their people during the war which endangered the Children. She then reminds Bran that it was his ancestral culture with inevitably made this a necessary action.
Bran encounters the Night King during a vision - who sees and grabs him.
Bran, without the consent of the Raven, connects to the weirwood with greensight, and sees an army of wights and White Walkers. The Night King, who is present, intercepts his vision by touching him. The Three-Eyed Raven informs Bran that the Night King now has knowledge of their location and the cave's magic won’t prevent the white walkers or wights from entering due to the mark placed on Bran’s arm.
Bran explores Winterfell's past whilst the Night King attacks the cave.
The Night King arrives with three other white walkers and an army of wights outside the cave, while Bran and the Three-Eyed Raven are in a vision of the past of his father’s departure from Winterfell to the Vale. Meera tries to awaken Bran, and wights dig into the cave and a White Walker enters. Meera kills the White Walker with a dragonglass tipped spear and several of The Children die fighting. The Three-Eyed Raven advises Bran to listen to Meera’s voice, pleading to warg into Hodor, which now echoes in their vision. Bran sees a young Wylis and wargs into him, resulting in Bran warging into present-day Hodor as well. Hodor, under Bran's control, assists them in their escape out the cave. Summer stays to defend them against the wights, and is stabbed to death. The Night King then enters the cave and kills The Three Eyed Raven, causing him to disintegrate in the vision with Bran. Leaf sacrifices herself to halt the wights advancing toward Meera, Bran, and Hodor. Hodor, still controlled by Bran, and creates their escape. Hodor, now himself, held the door to hold the wights from killing everyone, and was slowly being overwhelmed. Meera carries Bran’s unconscious body away into the Northern winter. Desperate and scared, she screams "Hold the Door." Still in the vision of the past of Winterfell Bran sees young Wylis/Hodor collapse after his mind returns to his body. Young Wylis keeps screaming "hold the door" repeatedly until it slurs into "Hodor": Bran’s possession of young Wylis in his vision of the past breaks young Wylis’s mind and he hears the echoes of Meera’s screams, which made his mind simple and only capable of repeating a form of the last words he heard before his death, "Hodor." Bran can only look on remorsefully as he realizes what he has done to Wylis/Hodor.
Benjen makes himself known to Bran.
Meera drags Bran through the woods beyond the wall, while he is still caught in visions about past and future events. They are chased by wights and just when they are about to kill them, a hooded person arrives and is able to kill all the wights, using a flaming chain. He urges Bran and Meera to come with him. Later, when they make camp, their rescuer reveals himself, and to Bran's surprise, it is his presumed to have been dead uncle Benjen. He explains that he was stabbed by a White Walker and left to die, but the Children of the Forest rescued and stopped him from becoming a Wight. He says that Bran must now be the new Three-Eyed Raven, and that he shall be waiting for the White Walkers when they come to the realms of men.
Bran and Meera head to the Wall.
Benjen takes Bran and Meera to a Weirwood beyond the wall, and explains that he cannot pass due to magic used during the building of the Wall to make sure the dead can't go beyond it. He then rides off, leaving Bran and Meera alone by the weirwood. Bran sees the weirwood, and begins to crawl over to it. Meera asks him if he is ready, and he replies that he is now the Three-Eyed Raven - he has to be ready. He then places his hand on the tree and returns to his vision in the Tower of Joy. Following his father inside, he watches Ned find Lyanna in a bed of her own blood. She whispers to him and reveals she has just given birth to a newborn son, imploring Ned to protect him from Robert Baratheon. As Ned takes his infant nephew in his arms, Bran looks on and gulps, realizing the baby is his "half-brother" Jon.
Bran is pulled to the Wall by Meera.
Upon arriving at the Wall, Bran and Meera are greeted by the men of the Night's Watch, led by Acting Lord Commander Eddison Tollett. To Edd's surprise, Bran is already aware of his service in the Night's Watch and knowledge of the White Walkers, having witnessed everything from the weirwood tree. Convinced of their identities, Edd and the Rangers escort Bran and Meera to Castle Black.
Bran reunites with Sansa in Winterfell.
Bran then travels to Winterfell, and arrives soon after Jon leaves for Dragonstone. Sansa runs to Bran and embraces him, not having seen each other since Sansa left for King's Landing. Sansa and Bran later talk by the weirwood tree in the godswood of Winterfell. Bran states his intent to talk to Jon when Sansa mentions him. Sansa initially believes Bran would be Lord of Winterfell, but Bran tells her that he is now the Three Eyed Raven, and that he must learn about current and past events. To convince her, Bran tells Sansa about her white wedding dress she wore when she married Ramsay Bolton, which takes Sansa by surprise and unsettles her.
Now with a wheelchair made by Maester Wolkan, Bran is met by Petyr Baelish, who gives him the Valyrian steel dagger that was used to make an attempt on his life from the catspaw. Uninterested, Bran simply asks Petyr if he knows who had the dagger before the assassin, to which Petyr responds that the question started the War of the Five Kings. Petyr then questions him on how he survived beyond the Wall, only to return to such chaos, to which Bran replies, "Chaos is a ladder", the very thing Petyr said to Varys after thwarting his plan to marry Sansa to Loras Tyrell and allowing Joffrey Baratheon to kill Ros for her role in Varys's plot, leaving Sansa to marry Tyrion instead. Petyr, visibly stunned, then exits upon the entrance of Meera, addressing Bran as "Lord Stark." However, Bran corrects him, saying that his profession as the Three-Eyed Raven doesn't allow this. Meera then announces that she is going back to Greywater Watch, to which Bran asks if she is leaving him, but understands that she must be with her family when the White Walkers come.
House Stark is reunited.
Bran thanks her for her help, though she is upset this is all he has to say to her, despite the fact that Jojen, Summer, and Hodor all sacrificed themselves to help Bran. However, Bran says that he is not "Bran Stark", and the many generations of the Three-Eyed Raven have all flown into him, meaning he can experience everything. Meera tearfully tells Bran that he died in the cave of the Three-Eyed Raven. Having another vision in the Godswood, he is reunited with his long-lost sister Arya, whom Bran initially thought was going to King's Landing to kill Cersei, a target on her kill list. With all three surviving children of Ned and Catelyn together, Bran gives Arya the dagger, explaining it is wasted on a cripple. When she asks why such a lowborn assassin would have a dagger made of Valyrian steel, Bran monotonously says that someone of a much higher position of power must have hired him and given the dagger to him. The three siblings then continue into the castle together, Arya pushing Bran's chair.
Bran receives a vision of the White Walker's movements.
Later, Bran wargs into a flock of ravens to do reconnaissance on the army of the dead, discovering they are dangerously close to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Unfortunately, the Night King spots him and promptly dispels the warged ravens. Once out of his trance, Bran orders Maester Wolkan to send out carrier ravens. One of these is sent to Jon, who learns of Bran and Arya's return to Winterfell, their survival also being mentioned in the letter.
Bran watches Petyr's execution.
Bran is later brought to join Sansa in what initially appears to be a trial for Arya but actually Petyr. Sansa accuses Petyr of murdering their aunt Lysa Arryn, orchestrating the Assassination of Jon Arryn, and conspiring with the Lannisters to betray their father, leading to the deaths of the entire Stark household in King's Landing as well as Ned's execution. At first, Petyr denies these accusations and points out that none of them actually saw him do any of these things. Bran reminds Petyr that he held a knife to his father's throat and repeats what he said to him then: "I did warn you not to trust me." Arya then shows Petyr the very same dagger that was meant to kill Bran and tells him that he lied to their parents about it belonging to Tyrion. Bran watches as his mother's former childhood friend and suitor crumples to the floor and begs for his life before Arya slits his throat with his own dagger.
Bran discovers Jon's true identity.
Later, Bran meets with the recently-arrived Samwell Tarly in his chambers. After explaining his abilities to Sam, Bran confirms via raven scroll that Jon is returning to Winterfell alongside Daenerys Targaryen. Though Bran already knows the truth about Jon's parentage and stresses that Jon needs to know as well, Sam reveals that Jon is actually the legitimate son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark, the High Septon having secretly annulled Rhaegar's marriage to Elia Martell. Using his Greensight, Bran witnesses the secret wedding of Rhaegar and Lyanna, realizing they genuinely loved each other and that Robert's Rebellion was based on a lie. Revisiting the vision Lyanna giving birth to her son, Bran hears Lyanna tell Ned that Jon's name is Aegon Targaryen, and thus, the one true heir to the Iron Throne. Later, through his flock of ravens at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, Bran watches the Night King destroy a large portion of the Wall using the undead Viserion, allowing his army to march south.
Bran is among those who greet Jon and Daenerys in Winterfell's courtyard when they return to the North. Having last seen Bran in a coma before leaving for the Wall, Jon rushes to embrace him. Following the tense exchange between Daenerys and Sansa, Bran states that they have no time to waste; the Wall has been breached and the Night King has taken control of Viserion. Soon after, Jaime returns to Winterfell and is shocked to see Bran. After a tense meeting with the council, who decide to spare Jaime's life, Jaime apologizes to Bran for what he did to him. Bran replies that he is not angry, much to Jaime's astonishment. Bran learns that he is seen to be the main target of the Night King, as, being the new Three-Eyed Raven, he holds the memories and history of mankind and this is what the Night King wants to wipe away. During the Battle of Winterfell, Bran sits in the godswood with Theon Greyjoy and the rest of the ironborn forces guarding him. At some point he wargs into a crow and observes the unfolding battle from above. After a long siege, the wights finally overwhelm the majority of Bran's escort, leaving only Theon as the sole surviving defender. As the Night King finally stands a few feet away, Bran calls to Theon, telling him that he is a good man, and thanking him for his efforts. With those last words he witnesses Theon making one last ill-advised charge against the Night King, who quickly disarms and kills Theon with the tip of his own weapon. The Night King finally crosses the gap between them, and Bran raises his gaze to meet the Night King's stare, the two finally meeting face-to-face at last. As the Night King reaches for his weapon, he senses something amiss and manages to catch Arya, who leaps out of nowhere in an attempt to catch him unawares. After a brief struggle, Arya manages to plunge the blade given to her by Bran into the Night King, causing him to explode and pull the life out of every member of his army present at the battle. Arya briefly meets Bran's gaze, relief clear on her face.
After Daenerys is assassinated, Bran is part of the Great Council of 305 AC to decide the fate of Tyrion and Jon. Tyrion convinces Grey Worm to let the new king of the Seven Kingdoms decide Jon's fate and states that it is stories that unite people. He contends that Bran should be king because he is a reluctant ruler and has the best story, being the memory of the world. When Tyrion asks him if he will lead the Seven Kingdoms to the best of his abilities, Bran asks why did he think he came all this way. The council concurs with Tyrion and votes Bran as king of the Six Kingdoms, with Sansa asserting the independence of the North, which he permits.
King Bran bids farewell to Jon Snow.
In order to repair the damage brought upon by his predecessor, Bran appoints Tyrion as his Hand of the King despite Grey Worm's opposition. The siblings later bid a final farewell to Jon who is exiled to the Night's Watch by Bran, in order to prevent a war between his supporters and the Unsullied. Later, during the first Small Council meeting, he asks if they have heard where Drogon went. When they are unable to give a satisfying answer, he decides to look for the dragon himself.
Bran Stark is one of a few characters known to possess magical abilities. He has also shown himself to be one of the most, if not the most, powerful human magic users in Game of Thrones.
Before the incident of his fall, Bran was an extremely curious and adventurous boy. He was noted by his mother, and by his brother Robb, to have done a great amount of climbing around the walls of Winterfell and having never fallen. After his fall, Bran turned towards melancholy, citing that he would rather be dead than be unable to walk. However, Bran became happier once Tyrion gave him the designs for a special saddle, since he also loved riding as much as he did climbing.
Growing up under the tutelage of the Three-Eyed Raven, Bran maintained his curious nature, defying the Raven's warnings about greensight on several occasions. Bran's personality changed significantly after the battle at the Raven's cave, during which his mind was filled with a superabundant amount of knowledge in a short time. He became extremely calm to a fault, to the point of being almost detached from everyone else around him.
On the Season 1 Blu-ray, Bran narrates the Histories & Lore shorts on "The Children of the Forest, the First Men, and the Andals", "The Age of Heroes", "The Old Gods and the New" and "House Stark." On the Season 3 Blu-ray, he narrates Histories & Lore short "Wargs and the Sight."
Bran Stark does not appear in Season 5. As David Benioff explained, Bran simply caught up with his material from the most recent book, and his arrival at the cave of the Three-Eyed Raven was a good stopping point, so it made more sense to just take a year off from his storyline to focus on other sub-plots which are also competing for time:
Brân means crow in Old Welsh.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels Bran is seven years old when the action begins. He has a love of climbing, and has been known to climb the walls of Winterfell and go exploring its ancient nooks and crannies. He dreams of one day being a great knight, but he is also fascinated by magic. Bran is described as having red-auburn hair like his mother, full brothers, and oldest sister, though on the series he has brown hair. Robb Stark's hair was also similarly darkened for the television series, while Rickon's is lightened to blond.
Before his disability, Bran shows some skills with a sword when Robert Baratheon visits Winterfell by befriending and sparring with Tommen Baratheon. Eddard also initially intends to take Bran to with him to King's Landing, along with Sansa and Arya, in the hopes that he will form a strong bond with the king's sons to foster good relations between their families in the next generation, much like Ned's close friendship with Robert did. Catelyn, however, wishes for Bran to remain in Winterfell with her and prays to the Seven Gods for something to keep Bran from leaving. Bran is later shoved out of a tower window by Jaime Lannister after he catches Jaime and Cersei together, and rendered crippled from the waist down, forcing Ned to leave him behind after all and leading Catelyn to blame herself.
While in a coma after the fall, Bran has dreams that he is still falling while the three-eyed crow (which became the Three-Eyed Raven in the series), tries to help him open his own third eye and his magical abilities. He also sees visions of the present and potentially the future. Bran wakes from his coma just as he has accepted his power and chosen to fly instead of fall. Upon waking, he learns of his disability as well as the fact that his father, mother, sisters, and half-brother Jon, have left him behind. In A Clash of Kings, Bran reflects, "It was as if some cruel god had reached down with a great hand and swept them all away, the girls to captivity, Jon to the Wall, Robb and Mother to war, King Robert and Father to their graves, and perhaps Uncle Benjen as well.” Bran spends a great deal of time depressed by his situation, which not only keeps him from the activities he loves but makes his dream to be a knight impossible. When the king dies and Eddard is taken prisoner, Bran acts as Robb's confidant while his older brother struggles to take on their father's role as lord and to bring together their bannermen in preparation to march south. Bran's the only one Robb can confess his fears and insecurities to while their bannermen take turns challenging Robb's authority. The Northern army soon marches south to save Ned, leaving Bran to be the Stark in Winterfell. Though Robb achieves some military success, Bran soon learns that his father has been executed.
Like in the television show, much of Bran's storyline in the second novel initially deals with his learning to rule Winterfell and his growing skinchanging abilities. But Bran's role is primarily in learning to rule as well as Northern politics and diplomacy, while the decision making is left to Rodrik Cassel and Maester Luwin. Bran also has to play host to two of Walder Frey's grandsons who are now being fostered at Winterfell as part of the pact Catelyn made to bring House Frey to Robb's side in the war. A harvest feast is held at the castle now that autumn has begun, and the remaining Northern nobility who haven't gone south with Robb come to Winterfell with various food offerings and to discuss political issues with Rodrik, Luwin, and Bran. Jojen and Meera Reed also attend the feast and reaffirm the crannogman's oath of fealty to House Stark.
After the celebration has ended, the Reeds remain in Winterfell and befriend Bran. Jojen has magical gifts similar to Bran's and repeatedly attempts to discuss them and the future with him, only for Bran to put him off because he is afraid of acknowledging his own abilities, though he knows he is skinchanging into Summer when he sleeps. Jojen has prophetic visions or green dreams which he shares with Bran. In the television show, the prophetic dreams are given to Bran since the Reeds are not introduced until the third season. One of Jojen's visions is of the sea coming to Winterfell, drowning a number of the castle's household. This comes to pass when Theon captures Winterfell while Rodrik is distracted by the attack at Deepwood Motte. Theon frees "Reek", a Winterfell prisoner who had served the presumed dead Ramsay Snow, while committing crimes. Theon takes him as one of his men. Not long after being forced to yield the castle to Theon, Bran, Rickon, the Reeds, and Hodor escape with the help of Osha the Wildling. They end up circling back to hide in the castle's crypts while Theon attempts to recapture them. When Theon fails to find them, "Reek" suggests they kill the sons of a miller and pass them off as Bran and Rickon. The children only leave the crypt after Ramsay Snow, who had been posing as Reek, sacks Winterfell and takes Theon prisoner. They find a dying Luwin in the godswood. He advises them to split Bran and Rickon up for safety. Osha takes Rickon while the Reed siblings take Bran. In the series, the younger Stark brothers aren't separated until the end of the third season.
Bran spends the third novel traveling to the Wall with the Reeds while also strengthening his skinchanging ability. Jojen warns him not to spend to much time in Summer's mind or else he'll lose himself. In their journey, they come upon a man from House Liddle, who seems to recognize who Bran is due to his direwolf and paralysis, but says nothing overtly. When they part, he leaves much of his food with them and Bran vows to pay House Liddle back for this once he returns to Winterfell. While hiding in an abandoned castle, the children see Jon fighting Wildlings below them. Bran skinchanges into Summer to fight them off, allowing Jon to escape. Once the Wildlings are gone, they continue traveling north until they reach the Nightfort at the Wall. Once there, they meet Sam and Gilly, who were instructed by a mysterious man named Coldhands to send Bran and his party through the Wall to meet him on the other side. Sam immediately realizes who is Bran, since he is both paraplegic and accompanied by a direwolf. Sam brings them to the Black Gate and opens it for them by reciting part of his Night's Watch vows. Before leaving, Sam swears three times that he will not tell anyone about meeting Bran, for his safety, and keeps his word.
Coldhands leads the party beyond the Wall for a great deal of time until they reach the cave of the three-eyed crow. Before entering, they are attacked by wights and have to fight their way in with the help of the children of the forest. Once there, Bran meets the three-eyed crow, who is a very old man whose life has been extended by the physical joining of his body with the weirwood roots. Bran asks if the three-eyed crow can help him walk again, but is told that he can't. But even though Bran will never walk again, he will fly.
In the television series, the character Coldhands is left out. So Sam helps them to the other side without his instruction while the children make their way to the cave on their own. There is not, however, any interaction between Bran and the Night's Watch mutineers or Vargo Hoat (Locke's literary counterpart), these subplots having been added in order to stretch out Bran's storyline and avoid completing his A Dance With Dragons chapters. Also, while Jojen dies during the battle with the wights outside of the cave in season four, he survives to enter the cave in the novels, though he is weak and depressed.
In real life, "Bran" is the word for "raven/crow" in several Celtic languages (Welsh, Cornish, Breton, etc.). Given that Westeros is loosely analogous to Britain, the First Men and their Old Gods are loosely analogous to the original Celtic inhabitants of Britain who worshiped druidic nature gods, but were later driven to the fringe of the island by invading peoples (i.e. the Andals are like the Anglo-Saxons). It is unknown if George R.R. Martin intentionally picked the name "Bran" knowing it is the Celtic word for "Crow", but it does neatly associate with Bran and his visions of the three-eyed crow.
Bran is the very first POV character in the novels. His chapter in A Game of Thrones, "Bran I", initially led many fans to assume that Bran was the main protagonist of the novel, and George R.R. Martin has since stated that Bran's fall from the tower was the series' first shocking moment which captivated fans, before other plot twists such as Ned's execution, the Red Wedding and the Mutiny at Castle Black.
Rickon Stark was the youngest child and third son of Eddard and Catelyn Stark.
Rickon is the fifth child and youngest son of Lady Catelyn and Lord Eddard Stark. Eddard is the head of House Stark. The North is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Stark is one of the Great Houses of the realm. House Stark rules the region from their seat of Winterfell while Eddard holds the title of Lord of Winterfell. He is also the Warden of the North to King Robert Baratheon.
Rickon was born and raised at Winterfell. He has two older brothers, Robb and Bran, and two older sisters, Sansa and Arya. He also has an older "bastard half-brother", Jon Snow. He is six-years-old when his uncle, Lord Jon Arryn, the Hand of the King, mysteriously dies.
Rickon watches Bran's archery training.
Rickon watches Bran's unsuccessful practice at archery and laughs when Bran misses and is outwitted by Arya; Rickon later helps Robb and Jon put the arrows back in their place. His brothers find a litter of direwolf pups in the Wolfswood and bring them back to Winterfell. Rickon adopts one of the pups and names him Shaggydog.
Rickon receives the visiting King Robert Baratheon with his family at Winterfell, standing close to his mother. During the welcome, Robert fondly ruffles his hair.
His father accepts Robert's offer to serve as the Hand of the King. Rickon's brother, Bran, is found severely injured at the base of a disused tower.
Eddard travels south to the capital King's Landing, taking Arya and Sansa with him. Catelyn initially remains with Bran, but after protecting him from an assassination attempt and then discovering evidence implicating House Lannister in his injuries, she follows Eddard south to warn him in secret. Rickon's oldest brother, Robb, is left in charge of Winterfell.
King Robert dies as a result of a hunting accident. His son Joffrey Baratheon claims the throne. Eddard challenges his legitimacy and is arrested for treason. Robb decides to ride against King Joffrey and wants to bid his younger brothers goodbye, but Rickon is nowhere to be found. Afterwards, Bran tries to reassure Rickon that Robb will return along with their parents, but Rickon wistfully replies, "No, they won't."
Rickon ventures in crypts with Shaggydog.
Rickon sees his father in the crypts below Winterfell in a dream. He goes down to the crypts with Shaggydog to look for him. He meets Bran, who also had a dream about his father being there. When Bran emerges from the crypts, Maester Luwin tells him that their father has been killed for treason against Joffrey Baratheon.
Rickon resentfully shells nuts.
As Bran holds court for his people, remaining the the acting Lord of Winterfell, Rickon sits beside his older brother, shelling nuts loudly with a rock. A shepherd reports being unable to tend to his flock with his three sons fighting in the south and Bran offers to assign two orphans from Winterfell's outlying winter town to aid him if he will give them room and board. The shepherd gratefully accepts. When the shepherd leaves, Bran tells Rickon to stop. Having seen everyone, Bran tells Maester Luwin that he is going to go for a ride before dark and calls for Hodor.
Rickon witnesses Rodrik's execution.
An attack on Torrhen's Square is used as a feint orchestrated by Theon Greyjoy to lure away the garrison, headed by Rodrik Cassel, from Winterfell. He seizes the poorly defended castle and forces Bran to surrender to him by threatening the people. Rickon is distraught when Theon publicly executes Rodrik. Along with Bran, he tries to plead for Rodrik's life but to no avail. Osha manages to free Bran and Rickon and leads them out of the castle. They reach the shepherd's farm in the winter town. Rickon remembers that Bran sent Billy and Jack there and wants to approach them for food. Bran is cautious about putting them in danger if they are tracked.
Rickon is revealed to be alive.
Bran's concern proves valid when Theon later reaches the farm but cannot find Bran or Rickon. He brutalizes the shepherd and then returns to Winterfell with the charred corpses of two boys, claiming that they are Bran and Rickon. The escapees actually back tracked through the stream and are hiding in the crypts at Winterfell. Luwin correctly deduces that the bodies must be the orphans from the farm.
A Bolton force led by Roose's bastard son, Ramsay Snow, besieges Winterfell, trapping Theon's meager Ironborn garrison. The Ironborn turn on Theon and accept Robb Stark's offer to spare their lives in return for surrendering. However, the House Bolton forces flay the Ironborn alive and sacks Winterfell, killing many of its inhabitants in the process.
Rickon and Shaggydog leave Winterfell with Bran, Osha, Hodor and Summer.
Following the Sack of Winterfell, Rickon and his companions emerge from the crypt to discover Winterfell in ruins. They also find a dying Maester Luwin resting under the willow tree. While Bran and Rickon offer to bring medicine to treat Luwin's wounds, he declines their offer and tells them to gather all of their warm clothing and travel north to Castle Black, where they would be safe with their half-brother, Jon Snow. At Luwin's own request, Osha euthanizes the elderly maester after the boys leave with Hodor. Rickon then travels north, accompanied by his older brother, Bran; their guardian, Osha; Hodor; and their two direwolves.
Rickon is startled when his brother wakes up from a vision.
Following the Fall of Winterfell, Rickon, along with Bran, Osha, Hodor, and the direwolves, Summer and Shaggydog, travel north toward Castle Black, the headquarters of the Night's Watch. Rickon inquires into Bran's welfare following his awakening from a greensight vision. During the journey, the group encounters Jojen Reed and his sister, Meera Reed. During the first encounter between the two parties, Rickon and Hodor are out hunting, leaving Bran and Osha behind to guard the camp.
The siblings are members of House Reed, a vassal house of House Stark, and had been searching for Bran and Rickon so that they can protect them. Bran also experiences strange dreams of seeing the world through the eyes of his wolf, Summer. Bran would later learn from Jojen that he is a warg and has the ability to enter the minds of animals and control their actions. On one occasion, Rickon is present when Jojen descends into a fit due to the exertions of his vision.
Rickon and the group arrive at Queenscrown.
Later, Rickon and his companions reach the Gift, a region south of the Wall that is considered to be beyond the borders of the Seven Kingdoms. The Gift had been granted to the Night's Watch thousands of years ago by Brandon the Builder, from which the Watch draws support for its material needs. While the region is fertile, it has become uninhabited due to frequent wildling attacks that forced the smallfolk to migrate south over the centuries. When his brother, Bran, raises this controversial issue, which troubles Osha due to her Wildling ancestry, Rickon adds that he had heard tales about the Wildlings drinking blood.
Rickon is shocked when his brother wargs into Hodor.
Rickon and his companions take shelter at an abandoned mill to escape a thunderstorm. Later, the group notices a band of Wildlings chasing down a Northman. During the ensuing incident, Bran uses his Warg powers to Warg through Summer and Shaggydog to fight off the Wildlings. This party of Wildlings includes Jon Snow, who earlier had been taken captive by them. Using his Warg abilities, Bran helps Jon Snow escape from his captors and later return to the Night's Watch.
Rickon is comforted by Osha before their departure.
Following the events of that night, Bran instructs Osha to bring Rickon to Last Hearth, the seat of House Umber, whose lord, Jon Umber, was a loyal bannerman of the Starks. This arrangement also suited Osha because she was unwilling to travel beyond the Wall with Bran due to the threat of the White Walkers. Rickon becomes upset, being separated from his brother and expresses his desire to accompany him on his journey. Bran tells him that if he or Robb do not return, Rickon needs to stay alive as the heir to Winterfell. Accompanied by his direwolf, Shaggydog, Rickon leaves with Osha as they head for the Last Hearth.
It is around this time that the Red Wedding takes place and several more members of Rickon's family are killed: his mother, Catelyn Stark; his brother, Robb Stark; his pregnant sister-in-law, Talisa; and her unborn child.
After the Red Wedding, the Starks' former bannerman, Roose Bolton, who personally killed Robb, is appointed as the new Warden of the North. His bastard son, Ramsay Snow, has physically and psychologically tortured Theon Greyjoy, the Starks' former ward, turning him into a broken pet called "Reek", who reveals to Roose that he did not in fact kill Bran and Rickon, and that they may be with Jon Snow at the Wall. Roose sends his best hunter, Locke, to find Bran and Rickon, promising him a 1000 acres and a holdfast. Locke infiltrates the Night's Watch and eventually catches up with Bran at Craster's Keep, but Bran wargs into Hodor and kills Locke before he can interrogate him as to Rickon's whereabouts.
After the Bolton army drives the remaining ironborn from the North and takes Winterfell, Roose Bolton asks Ramsay if he has heard anything from Locke. Ramsay informs him that he has not. Roose dismisses Locke's absence as unimportant, speculating that Bran and Rickon may already be dead anyway.
Rickon is still largely believed to have died along with Bran at the hands of Theon. When Sansa Stark returns to Winterfell to be wed to Ramsay at the behest of Petyr Baelish, Ramsay initially forces Theon to keep up the charade and apologize to Sansa. Eventually, however, an irate Sansa forces Theon to finally admit that he did not kill her brothers. Stunned by this admission, her anger towards Theon cools but when she asks if he knows where they might have gone to, he breaks down and leaves the room, fearful of what Ramsay will do if and when he finds out what he just told her. However, Sansa appears to be left with a sense of renewed hope by the revelation that she still has surviving family left.
Rickon and Osha are presented to Ramsay Bolton by Smalljon Umber.
Rickon and Osha, having reached Last Hearth, are betrayed by Smalljon Umber after the Greatjon's passing and brought before Ramsay Bolton in order to form an alliance against Jon Snow and the Wildlings. After seeing Shaggydog's decapitated head as proof of the boy's identity, Ramsay sarcastically welcomes Rickon home, while Rickon shows visible signs of anger at Ramsay and his dead direwolf. Jon and Sansa later receive a letter from Ramsay that says he has Rickon in his dungeon and that his hounds will kill their "wild little brother" if Sansa is not returned. After hearing that Rickon is in danger, Jon and Sansa declare war on Ramsay.
In order to lure Jon Snow out, Ramsay uses Rickon as bait.
Before they commence battle, the three of them have a parley where Ramsay asks Jon and Sansa if they will let Rickon die because they are too proud to surrender. When Sansa asks for proof that he actually has her brother, Smalljon pulls Shaggydog's head out of a sack and tosses it to the ground in front of them. Ramsay begins to repeat his terms if they wish to save Rickon but Sansa, having firsthand experience of Ramsay's "mercy", cuts him off and declares that he is going to die the next day.
Rickon is killed by Ramsay.
As the two armies face each other on the battlefield, Rickon is brought forward. He lowers his head as Ramsay raises a dagger, but his captor simply cuts the ropes and asks if Rickon likes games. He tells the boy to run to his brother. Rickon begins to walk but looks back to see Ramsay taunting him and starts running. Jon, knowing what Ramsay is plotting, begins riding towards Rickon who keeps running and is nearly hit as arrows land dangerously close. Just as Rickon is about to reach his brother, he is struck by an arrow and killed. This in turn provokes Jon and his army into attacking the Bolton forces while Rickon's body is hit with another volley of arrows.
Jon orders his brother's burial.
Though the battle proves costly to the Stark forces, they ultimately emerge victorious due to the arrival of a House Arryn cavalry force. Rickon is avenged when Smalljon is killed in battle by Tormund, and Ramsay is viciously beaten to a bloody pulp by Jon before being fed to his own hounds on Sansa's orders. After the battle, his corpse is brought to Winterfell and Jon orders him to be buried in the crypts next to his father.
During the meeting at Dragonstone, Daenerys tells Jon "You lost two brothers", referring to Robb and Rickon.
After returning to Winterfell, Arya is reunited with Sansa in the crypts, where Sansa tells her that Bran has returned but fails to mention Rickon, leading Arya to the distressing truth of Rickon's murder.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Rickon is three years old when the narrative begins. He is very young, but fierce and strong for his age. He has the auburn hair and blue eyes of the Tullys. He and Robb are the only ones out of the six children who are not POV characters. Much as in Seasons 1 and 2, Rickon usually appears in chapters narrated by Bran's POV. Another similarity is that as Rickon gets older, he gradually gets a larger speaking role, as seen in both the second book and Season 2, compared to his small role in the first book and Season 1.
Rickon is deeply affected by the massive losses occurring in his young life, compounded by the fact that he is only three to six old (between the first and third novels), thus has difficulty comprehending why these horrible things are even happening. Within a span of only two years, the Lannisters and their allies killed Rickon's father, burned down his home castle of Winterfell, and killed his mother and oldest brother. The loss of Maester Luwin was also a heavy blow to him. As a result, Rickon becomes very angry and aggressive, which is reflected in the attitude of his direwolf Shaggydog. Rickon is so upset when his mother leaves home to travel with Robb's army to the south that he refuses to have his hair cut. As a result, his hair becomes long and very unruly, signifying the mountain of anger and grief the young boy sits on, due to the loss of his slain family members and followers.
He is separated from Bran much earlier than in the show, just after leaving Winterfell. Maester Luwin advises Osha to take him either to the White Harbor or to Last Hearth, since both are inhabited by loyal bannermen of the Starks.
Later, in a A Dance of Dragons, it is revealed that Rickon, Osha and Shaggydog have traveled to the remote isle of Skagos. Wex Pyke, the only survivor of the ironborn who occupied Winterfell, followed them and then went to the White Harbor and told Lord Manderly. Lord Manderly, one of the Starks' loyal bannermen, seeking to avenge his son Wendel, offers to pledge his allegiance to King Stannis Baratheon if Davos brings Rickon back safely. Lord Manderly plans to overthrow the Boltons and restore House Stark.
By the point the books reached, it is uncertain whether Rickon is still alive.
"Winter Is Coming" is the first episode of the first season of Game of Thrones. It is the first episode of the series overall. It premiered on April 17, 2011 on HBO. It was written by David Benioff and D.B. Weiss, and directed by Tim Van Patten.
Lord Ned Stark is troubled by disturbing reports from a Night's Watch deserter. King Robert arrives at Winterfell.
Three rangers of the Night's Watch: Ser Waymar Royce, Will, and Gared depart from the Wall to investigate reports of wildlings in the Haunted Forest which lies to the north, Beyond the Wall. Will, the best scout in the group, discovers a number of wildling corpses dismembered and arranged in a strange, ritualistic fashion on the ground. He also finds a dead wildling girl pinned to a tree.
Wight of wildling girl.
He reports back to the others. Ser Waymar overrides the older Gared's advice that they return to Castle Black to report the situation to Lord Commander of the Night's Watch Jeor Mormont. He instead insists on seeing the corpses for himself to determine what killed them. When they reach the site, the bodies have disappeared. Will scouts around for clues, but Gared finds a bloody piece of clothing buried under the snow. Further investigations are curtailed when a tall, humanoid figure with glowing blue eyes, a White Walker, arrives and kills Ser Waymar with ease. Gared attempts to escape but is caught and killed. Will, in abject horror, sees the dead wildling girl from earlier who is now walking with blue eyes, and also witnesses Gared's death, with the White Walker tossing his severed head at Will's feet.
In the Free City of Pentos, across the Narrow Sea, Viserys and Daenerys Targaryen live in the hospitality of Magister Illyrio Mopatis. Viserys has arranged to wed his sister Daenerys (also called "Dany") to Khal Drogo, the warlord of a Dothraki khalasar of forty thousand warriors. In return, Drogo will give Viserys the army he needs to reclaim the Iron Throne. Viserys prepares Daenerys for meeting the Khal. He tells her what a beautiful young woman she has turned into, and slips off her dress and fondles her breast. She is silent and looks away as if pretending it isn't happening. She steps into a hot bath that has just been drawn. This greatly distresses her maid, who believes the water will scald her. However, Daenerys seems not to notice it and appears to be unharmed.
Drogo arrives in Pentos and approves of Daenerys.
Illyrio and Viserys discuss the quest to sail back to Westeros, and Viserys inquires when the wedding will take place. Daenerys is not pleased with the arrangement and blurts out that she does not want to marry Drogo. Viserys insists that Daenerys will marry him, because in return, Drogo will give Viserys the army he needs to retake their father's throne from Robert Baratheon. Viserys adds that he would let his sister be raped by all forty thousand of Drogo's men and their horses if it meant getting his throne back. A short time later, Drogo arrives at Illyrio's estate. After taking a glance at Daenerys, Drogo rides away without dismounting from his horse. Viserys is concerned, but Illyrio assures him that, if he did not approve of Daenerys, they would have known.
Daenerys in her wedding dress
Later, Daenerys marries Khal Drogo and a great celebration is held. Several people die in impromptu duels, which Illyrio says is a good sign: "a Dothraki wedding without at least three deaths is considered a dull affair.". The bride and groom receive many gifts, but for Dany, two are particularly interesting. The first is a selection of books containing stories and songs from the Seven Kingdoms, given to her by Ser Jorah Mormont, an exiled knight of House Mormont. Ser Jorah swears fealty to Viserys as King and offers him his support and advice, which is accepted. The second is a box containing three beautiful, scaly stones. According to Illyrio, these are dragon eggs from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai that have turned to stone with the passing of time. Dany appears to feel some connection with the eggs, but brushes it off for the time being. For his gift, Drogo gives Daenerys a beautiful white mare. Viserys tells his sister to make Drogo happy. Drogo and Daenerys ride down to the shore and consummate their marriage on the beach at sunset. Daenerys is visibly upset and terrified.
In King's Landing, the capital city of the Seven Kingdoms, the bells ring out to commemorate the death of Lord Jon Arryn, the Hand of the King. As the Silent Sisters prepare his body for burial, Queen Cersei Lannister looks on. She is worried that Jon discovered something he shouldn't have, and may have told someone. She confesses her fears to her twin brother, Ser Jaime Lannister of the Kingsguard, but he tells her not to worry, since if the King knew the truth they'd be dead already. She tells him he should be the new Hand of the King, but he doesn't want the job. He considers it too much work. Cersei accuses him of taking nothing seriously.
Ned Stark draws his sword.
Some time later, Will has fled south of the Wall in terror, rather than return to warn Castle Black of the White Walker threat. He is apprehended by outriders loyal to House Stark, the wardens of the North, and is taken to Lord Eddard Stark.
Meanwhile, Lord Eddard "Ned" Stark is at Winterfell with his wife and family. Ned and Catelyn watch their 10-year old son Bran Stark practice archery while he is being helped by Robb Stark, Ned and Catelyn's eldest son, and Ned's illegitimate son Jon Snow, both 17. Robb and Jon can't help laughing when Bran's latest arrow goes high over the wall, even worse than the last shot, but after Eddard amusedly chides the two, encourages Bran to keep at it. The youngest son, 6-year old Rickon Stark, watches his brothers until Ned and Catelyn's youngest daughter, 11-year old Arya Stark - who has left needlework where their 13-year old daughter Sansa Stark is - hits Bran's bullseye with an arrow before Bran can. Bran chases Arya while Ned, Catelyn, Robb and Jon laugh until Ned receives news that a Night's Watch deserter has been found.
The law decrees that as a deserter from the Watch, Will is an oathbreaker and must be executed. Ned takes three of his sons with him - Robb, Jon, and Bran - to witness the execution due to it being a Stark custom among sons to carry out executions themselves. Also joining Eddard is his ward Theon Greyjoy, the master-at-arms Rodrik Cassel and his leading guard Jory Cassel. Will accepts his fate, but tells Eddard about the Walkers first and asks that word be sent back to his mother. Eddard carries out the execution himself, using the ancestral Valyrian blade of their house, Ice. Young Bran witnesses an execution for the first time without flinching, earning praise from his half-brother Jon. Eddard explains to Bran that the reason he was made to execute Will was because "the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword." When Bran asks his father about Will's talk of White Walkers, Eddard dismisses it as a madman's ramblings, insisting that the Walkers have been gone for centuries. The party sets out for Winterfell.
The Starks come across the Direwolves.
On the way back to the castle, the party finds a stag dead in the road, partially disemboweled. Theon wonders if it's the work of a mountain lion, but Eddard states that none live in the area. Looking for what killed it, they find a rare dead female direwolf, killed with a stag antler piece broken off in her throat. The female died after giving birth, and her five pups huddle by the corpse for warmth. Eddard advocates killing the pups out of mercy rather than have them starve to death, but Jon Snow convinces his father that this is an omen: the direwolf is the symbol of House Stark, and Eddard has five trueborn children. With Bran looking on beseechingly, Eddard agrees to allow it, but only if they care for and raise the pups themselves; even if one should die, the owner will be the one to bury it. Just as the party leaves, Jon finds a sixth pup, an albino runt of the litter. Theon mockingly points out that this one belongs to Jon, but Jon nonetheless adopts the sixth pup.
A raven bears news of Jon Arryn's death to Winterfell, where Lady Catelyn Stark informs Eddard. He is particularly stricken because Arryn served as a father-figure to him when he was fostered at the Eyrie. She also tells him that King Robert Baratheon and much of the royal court rides for Winterfell. Eddard realizes that King Robert means to name him as the Hand to replace Jon Arryn. He ponders refusal, feeling his place is at Winterfell.
Over the next few weeks, the Stark children grow used to their rapidly-growing direwolves: Robb names his Grey Wind, Sansa calls hers Lady, and Arya names hers Nymeria after a great warrior-queen. Jon names his Ghost, for his white color and uncanny silence. Bran calls his Summer and six-year-old Rickon names his wolf Shaggydog. Bran's mother catches him climbing on the rooftops of the castle, just as the royal party comes into view. He promises to stop, but his mother knows he is lying. Winterfell prepares for guests. Catelyn Stark wants to make sure that Tyrion Lannister, a great reader, has enough candles, and the young men of the house get groomed, as they gossip about the queen, a reportedly great beauty.
Winterfell gathers to greet the royal party.
All of Winterfell gathers in the courtyard as the royal party approaches. Arya is late and annoys Sansa by not being silent and respectful when they arrive. King Robert rides in with his knights, while Queen Cersei is in a large wheelhouse. Lord Eddard presents his household to King Robert. Eddard and Robert greet each other warmly, and then Robert demands to see the crypts and pay his respects to Eddard's deceased sister, Lyanna, much to Queen Cersei's impatience. After Robert and Eddard depart, Cersei sends Jaime to find their younger brother Tyrion, who is a dwarf. "The Imp" has found his way to the brothel in the town outside Winterfell, where he enjoys the attentions of a prostitute named Ros. Jaime tells Tyrion, a man of limited height but with immense appetites, that he will be needed at the feast that night. Jaime has hired three more prostitutes for Tyrion, to hurry things along.
Lyanna's statue in the crypts of Winterfell.
In the crypts Robert offers up his prayers at the tomb of Lyanna Stark, Eddard's younger sister, whom Robert was betrothed to before she was allegedly kidnapped by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen. Lyanna died shortly after she was found. He tells Eddard that in his dreams he kills Rhaegar every night anew. Eddard reminds him that House Targaryen was destroyed, but Robert replies: "not all of them."
Robert formally offers Eddard the role of Hand, and Eddard asks for time to consider. Robert agrees, but offers a sweetener: the hand of his son, Joffrey, in marriage to Eddard's daughter, Sansa. A great feast is held and Cersei and Catelyn exchange cordial words. Cersei seems more impressed by Sansa, thinking that she will be a great hit at court. Outside the feast, Jon Snow works at his sword practice, angry that Catelyn thought it would be inappropriate that a bastard should attend. His uncle Benjen Stark, First Ranger of the Night's Watch, arrives to join the feast, and Jon asks him to take him back to the Wall with him. Benjen agrees to consider it. Tyrion Lannister then arrives and talks to Jon, suggesting that he is too pricklish and quick to take offense when his illegitimacy is pointed out. He should take the insult and wear it like armor, so that no one can hurt him with it. When Jon angrily asks Tyrion what he knows about it, Tyrion replies that "all dwarfs are bastards in their father's eyes."
Eddard and Catelyn receive a letter in the night, delivered to Maester Luwin by a messenger from the Eyrie. The letter is from Catelyn's sister, Lady Lysa Arryn, the widow of Jon Arryn. In the letter, Lysa says that Jon Arryn was murdered by the Lannisters and that they plan to conspire against King Robert. Luwin counsels that Eddard should accept Robert's offer to be Hand, so he can investigate the truth of the matter and protect the King. Eddard, while he would prefer to stay at Winterfell, agrees with Luwin and accepts the offer.
The next morning Eddard and Robert go hunting, leaving the castle largely empty. Bran indulges in some climbing but, while climbing a broken tower, he hears someone moaning. He peers through a window and finds the queen and her brother engaged in a sexual act. Cersei spots him and warns Jaime, who grabs Bran. Jaime looks out the window to make sure nobody else is watching and only sees Summer. He turns to Bran and asks how old he is. When Bran replies "ten," Jaime remarks with a sigh, "The things I do for love." With that, he pushes Bran out of the window.
Ser Waymar Royce: [to Gared] "Do the dead frighten you?"
Lady Catelyn Stark: [about Bran] "Ten is too young to see such things."
Lord Eddard Stark: "He won't be a boy forever, and winter is coming."
Eddard: [to Bran] "The man who passes the sentence should swing the sword."
Jon Snow: "Lord Stark? There are five pups, one for each of the Stark children. The direwolf is the sigil of your House. They were meant to have them."
Eddard: "You will train them yourselves, you will feed them yourselves, and if they die, you will bury them yourselves."
Bran Stark: "What about you?"
Jon: "I'm not a Stark. Get on."
[As Jon is heading towards the road, he notices something at the base of a tree and heads towards it.]
Robb Stark: "What is it?"
[Jon straightens up, holding a sixth direwolf pup, an albino.]
Theon Greyjoy: "Ah, the runt of the litter! That one's yours, Snow."
King Robert Baratheon: "Lord Eddard Stark, I would name you the Hand of the King."
Tyrion Lannister: "Should I explain the meaning of a closed door in a whorehouse to you, brother?"
Ser Jaime Lannister: "You've much to teach me, no doubt, but our sister craves your attention."
Tyrion: "She has odd cravings, our sister."
Jaime: "A family trait."
Viserys Targaryen: [to Daenerys] "I would let his whole tribe fuck you, all forty thousand men and their horses too, if that's what it took."
Jon: "You're Tyrion Lannister? The Queen's brother?"
Tyrion: "My greatest accomplishment. And you, you're Ned Stark's bastard, aren't you? Did I offend you? Sorry. You are the bastard, though."
Jon: "Lord Eddard Stark is my father."
Tyrion: "And Lady Stark is not your mother, making you the bastard. Let me give you some advice, bastard - never forget what you are. The rest of the world will not. Wear it like armor, and it can never be used to hurt you."
Jon: "What the hell do you know about being a bastard?"
Tyrion: "All dwarves are bastards in their father's eyes."
Jaime: "The things I do for love."
Executive producers and writers David Benioff and D.B. Weiss provide a commentary for the episode for the DVD and Blu-ray release.
"The Iron Throne" is the sixth and final episode of the eighth season of Game of Thrones. It is the seventy-third and final episode of the series overall. It premiered on May 19, 2019 on HBO. It was written and directed by David Benioff and D.B. Weiss.
The fate of the Seven Kingdoms is at stake as the final chapter of Game of Thrones is written.
Tyrion walks through the ashed capital.
Snow falls over the wreckage of King's Landing as Jon, Davos, and Tyrion walk through the ash-covered devastation, with charred bodies of civilians and soldiers everywhere. Tyrion leaves Jon and Davos as he walks alone towards the Red Keep. Once inside, he heads towards the cellar and takes the same escape route Jaime had taken him through on the eve of his scheduled beheading courtesy of their father's sentencing, when Tyrion was falsely accused of killing Joffrey. Tyrion walks through the rubble and remains of the Red Keep, searching for his siblings. He spots Jaime's golden hand under the rubble. Devastated by this sign, Tyrion clears away the rubble stone by stone to find the corpse of his sister Cersei Lannister, and is visibly shaken by it. Knowing his brother is next to her under the debris, Tyrion painfully continues to clear away broken rock and begins to weep when he finds Jaime's corpse. His dead brother's death-wish has been fulfilled: Jaime "died in the arms of the woman he loved."
Meanwhile, Jon finds Grey Worm about to execute the remainder of the Lannister forces and tries to stop him, telling him it's over. Grey Worm, however, tells him it won't be over until Daenerys's enemies are defeated, but Davos asks him, "How much more defeated do you need them to be? They're on their knees!" The Unsullied commander reminds Davos that he only obeys the queen's commands. When Jon asks him what are those commands, Grey Worm reveals that he has orders to kill all who follow Cersei and that the soldiers that they captured chose to fight for her. Grey Worm then takes out his knife to begin the execution before Jon grabs him by the arm in an attempt to stop him. Immediately, all of the Unsullied present threateningly aim their spears at Jon and the Northerners, who, except for Jon, draw their swords in self-defense. As Grey Worm glares at Jon for attempting to intervene, Davos immediately diffuses the confrontation, telling Jon that they should speak with Daenerys. As the two leave, Grey Worm starts to slit the prisoners' throats one by one.
House Targaryen is restored.
Outside the gates of the city, the Dothraki are celebrating their victory while a stony-faced Arya appears from the ruined city covered in ash, blood, and grime. Jon pushes his way through the crowd of Dothraki and goes toward the gate, upon which a huge Targaryen banner is hanging. As he reaches the top, Grey Worm also appears and they exchange a tense look. Drogon then appears with Daenerys and lands behind them. She walks out to address her army, amidst much cheering from them. In a loud voice, Daenerys tells the Dothraki, "You tore down their stone houses, you gave me the Seven Kingdoms". Turning to Grey Worm, Daenerys promotes him to Commander of all her forces and the Master of War. She also praises the Unsullied and calls her forces 'liberators' for 'freeing' the people of King's Landing while Jon watches in concern. Tyrion then comes to the scene, looking devastated by his brother's death. Daenerys then declares that she now wants to break the wheel and enlists her army to aid her in 'liberating' not only all of Westeros, but the world: "From Winterfell to Dorne, from Lannisport to Qarth, from the Summer Islands to the Jade Sea," destroying the tyrants of the world. From behind the cheering armies, Arya looks up balefully at Daenerys, angry that the latter had killed Cersei ahead of her. When Daenerys sees Tyrion, she accuses him of treason since he freed Jaime. He replies, "I freed my brother, and you slaughtered a city," with a look of disgust, throwing away his "Hand of the Queen" brooch. Outraged by this show of defiance, Daenerys orders her men to take him away. Perturbed, Jon and Tyrion make eye contact before Jon turns to face Daenerys. They share a tense silence before she leaves with some of the Unsullied.
Arya silently appears beside Jon while he watches Daenerys leave. Jon is surprised that his sister is in King's Landing; when he notices her bloody face, he asks what happened to her. Arya tells him that she came to kill Cersei, but Daenerys got to her first. When Jon tells her that Daenerys is now the queen of all Westeros, Arya coldly suggest that he try and tell that to Sansa, revealing that her sister won't bend the knee to Daenerys. When Jon tells Arya to wait for him outside the city gates, she warns him that Daenerys knows who he really is and will view him as a threat due to his claim to the Iron Throne. Before she leaves, Arya tells Jon in reference to Daenerys, "I know a killer when I see one."
Jon visits Tyrion in prison. After asking Jon if he brought wine, Tyrion says that their queen doesn't keep prisoners for long, and that there's supposedly a crude kind of justice. He then tells Jon that he had betrayed Varys and watched him burn to death and now his ashes can tell his ashes. Knowing his death is certain, Tyrion asks Jon if there is life after death and Jon tells him, "Not that I've seen." Grimly noting that oblivion is the best he could hope for, Tyrion goes over his past sins, including murdering both his lover and father and betraying their queen. When Jon tries to tell Tyrion he didn't, the dwarf insisted he did and that if he do it again, he'll now see what Daenerys is truly capable of, and he tells Jon, "I chose my fate, the people of King's Landing did not." Disturbed by what Daenerys did and is unable to justify it, Jon believes the war is over now.
In response, Tyrion questions him, "Is it? When you heard her talking to her soldiers, did she sound like someone who's done fighting?". He goes on to say, "She liberated the people of Slaver's Bay. She 'liberated' the people of King's Landing. And she'll go on liberating until the people of the world are free and she rules them all". Jon angrily tells him that he has been counseling her, and Tyrion agrees stating, "Varys was right. I was wrong. It was vanity to think I could guide her. Our queen's nature is fire and blood." Jon is upset by the notion that blood defines who they are, and tells her that Daenerys is not her father as Tyrion is not his father. The dwarf admits that Tywin and Cersei were both evil, but reminds Jon that Daenerys has killed more people than Tywin, Cersei and any of the evil people they know. Jon tries to defend Daenerys, going over her various traumas (Missandei's murder, Rhaegal's death) and Cersei's actions, but Tyrion reminds him that she burned King's Landing for it. He forces Jon to pause when he asks, "Would you have done it?"; he tries to make Jon see that, if he had been in the same place, knowing what it's like to be on dragonback with that power, Jon wouldn't have done the same thing. Realizing that Jon doesn't want to betray Daenerys, Tyrion goes over her history of killing evil men, and how everyone supported her for it, but she grew more and more powerful, more convinced of her rightness. Tyrion then reveals that Daenerys is convinced it is her destiny to make the world better for everyone and will do whatever it takes to build the ideal world she wants, no matter how many must die to make it come to reality.
Tyrion reasons with a tortured Jon, "I know you love her. I love her too. Not as successfully as you. But I believed in her with all my heart. Love is more powerful than reason." Recalling Maester Aemon's words, Jon reflects, "Love is the death of duty." Tyrion agrees and says that sometimes, duty must be the death of love, and tells Jon, "You are the shield that guards the realms of men. You've already tried to do the right thing, no matter the cost. You've tried to protect the people.", before asking "Who is the greatest threat to the people now?" Tyrion acknowledges assassinating Daenerys is a terrible thing he's asking Jon to do, but says it's also the right thing. As Jon struggles with the idea of killing the woman he loves, Tyrion says he won't be the last man she executes and asks, "Who is more dangerous than the rightful heir to the Iron Throne?" Jon accepts being executed by Daenerys if that is her choice. He apologizes to Tyrion that it came to this, but Tyrion tries again, and reveals that both Sansa and Arya won't bend the knee which would put all of House Stark in great danger. Jon says his sisters will be loyal to the throne, but Tyrion responds that the reason Sansa told him about his parentage is because she doesn't want Daenerys to be queen. Jon says that's not up to Sansa and Tyrion agrees, but he tells Jon he needs to make a choice, telling him "And you have to choose now." Jon then leaves with a rattled look.
Troubled, he walks through the ruins of the Red Keep. From under the snow, Drogon appears, comes face to face with Jon, and goes back to sleep.
Meanwhile, Daenerys comes to the throne room and sees the Iron Throne for the first time in her life, the same thing that she saw in the House of the Undying years ago. She is visibly overwhelmed by her emotions since to conquer this throne has been her lifelong dream. In awe, she goes to touch the throne as Jon appears. Seeing him, Daenerys tells him that when she was a child, her brother Viserys would tell her that it was made from the thousand swords of the fallen enemies of Aegon the Conqueror, and asks Jon, "What do a thousand swords look like in the mind of a little girl who can't count to twenty? I imagined a mountain of swords too high to climb. So many fallen enemies, you could only see the soles of Aegon's feet." Jon confronts her over Grey Worm executing the Lannister prisoners in the streets but Daenerys defends it is necessary. This caused Jon to protest, saying "Necessary? Have you been down there? Have you seen? Children! Little children, burned!". Daenerys responding back saying she tried to make peace with Cersei, but she used their innocence against her, and thought she would have been crippled by her. Jon urges Daenerys to forgive Tyrion and the people of King's Landing, who she's ordered to be executed, and pleaded her to make them see they made a mistake and make to them understand she isn't the person she is. However, Daenerys says she can't and is resolved, stating "We can't give in to small mercies," she rallies. Jon urges her that they need a world of mercy, but Daenerys tries to convince Jon that her way is the way to the better world. A distressed Jon asks her how she knows, and she assures him it's because she knows what is good and gently tells him that so does he. Jon tearfully says he doesn't know and asks, "What about everyone else? All the other people who think they know what's good?" Daenerys simply replies, "They don't get to choose." Daenerys embraces Jon and, sincere, she tells him to join her and that she wants him to help her break the wheel, trying to convince him of her new vision. Heartbroken, Jon declares, "You are my queen, now and always." They kiss and as they do so, an anguished Jon drives his dagger through her heart. Stunned, Daenerys collapses as Jon catches her. She dies in Jon's arms as he weeps over her body.
Drogon destroys the Iron Throne.
Drogon then arrives from behind as a grieving Jon holds Daenerys' body, while snow falls. When the dragon approaches, Jon carefully lays her down and Drogon tries to wake his mother up to no avail. Upon knowing that she is dead, a rageful Drogon faces Jon, who prepares for the dragon's flames, waiting for his impending death as Drogon roars and breaths fire in several directions in grief. However, Drogon does not kill Jon; instead, he channels his rage towards the Iron Throne and melts it down. He proceeds to gently pick up his mother's body and flies away in the gloomy sky, still bellowing in grief.
Weeks later, Grey Worm escorts a disheveled and grimy Tyrion to the Dragonpit. Sansa, Bran, Arya, Yara Greyjoy, Brienne, Davos, Gendry Baratheon, Samwell "Sam" Tarly, Yohn Royce, Robin Arryn, Edmure Tully and the new Prince of Dorne are all present there. Jon is also imprisoned for regicide, but he's not brought forth along with Tyrion. When Sansa asks Grey Worm where Jon is, as Jon was supposed to be brought along with Tyrion, the Unsullied commander replies that he decides what to do with their prisoners and that King's Landing is their city now. Not appeased by this, Sansa warns him that there are thousands of Northmen outside the city gate and as a result, harming Jon wouldn't be in Grey Worm's interest. However, Grey Worm replies in equal measure, saying there are also thousands of Unsullied as well. Yara sides with the Unsullied commander because the ironborn agreed to follow Daenerys, but Sansa accuses her of agreeing to follow a tyrant. In response, the latter states that Daenerys freed all of Westeros from a tyrant, that Cersei is gone because of her and Jon Snow put a knife through her heart. Yara demanded Sansa that she allow the Unsullied to execute Jon, but Arya warns her not to say another word about killing her brother and threaten to cut her throat. Davos defuses the situation, saying they've had enough of cutting each other's throats. He gives Grey Worm's men credit for their aid in the war against the undead and if it weren't for them, they would have lost. He suggests Grey Worm take land in the Reach and start their own house, "We've had enough war. Thousands of you, thousands of them. You know how it ends. We need to find a better way."
Dissatisfied, Grey Worm states they do not need payment but justice for Daenerys's assassination and insists Jon cannot go free. Though Grey Worm tries to force Tyrion into silence, the dwarf nevertheless reminds him that he does not get to decide Jon's fate, since it rests with their new queen/king. When it's pointed out there isn't one, Tyrion says that as the most powerful lords and ladies gathered, they can pick one from their number. Grey Worm relents and tells the assembly of lords and ladies to decide the new ruler. They start looking at each other until Edmure Tully rises from his seat and starts to give a speech putting himself forward for the position, but is cut short by Sansa who sternly asks him to sit down. Visibly embarrassed by this, Edmure sat back down on his chair. Sam, familiar with the voting system for the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, suggests that the new ruler should be chosen by "everyone" through a vote - not only lords but all the people of the kingdom. This is met with scornful laughter from almost everyone, with Edmure and Lord Yohn comparing the idea of giving votes to the smallfolk with giving votes to horses and dogs.
When Tyrion is told that perhaps he wants the crown himself, Tyrion disagrees as he is hated by half the people for serving Daenerys and the other half for betraying her. When Davos asks who he thinks should be king, Tyrion responds that stories unite people and are powerful things. Proposing an elective monarchy, he concludes, "And who has a better story than Bran the Broken? A boy, pushed from the tower, who couldn't walk but learned to fly. The crippled boy who crossed the wall and became the Three-Eyed Raven. He's all our memory. Who better to lead us to the future?" Sansa objects it by mentioning that Bran cannot father any children, to which Tyrion replies that it is good since sons of kings are often vain and cruel as she well knows, referring to the cruelty and sadism of Joffrey Baratheon. He then asks Bran whether he will accept the crown, even though he does not want it, to which Bran replies, "Why do you think I came all this way?" Tyrion waits for the actions of the other leaders. All of them slowly start saying "aye" one by one, showing that they accept Bran as their new king. However, Sansa is hesitant about this and states to her younger brother that while she believes he will be a good king, the North will once again be an independent kingdom. Bran gives his assent to her request and wants Tyrion to be his Hand but Grey Worm objects to it, saying that the dwarf has to atone for his sins, to which King Bran reveals that Tyrion has made a lot of mistakes and he will spend the rest of his life rectifying them, but Grey Worm is still unsatisfied.
Tyrion pays a visit to a dejected Jon in prison and informs him that to placate everyone, a compromise has been reached and that he is going to the Night's Watch, which Jon had presumed was disbanded following the extinction of the White Walkers. Tyrion explains that while the purpose of the Night's Watch was served, it continues to serve as a quarantine for the banished, poor and unfortunate. Sansa and Arya wanted Jon to be pardoned while the Unsullied wanted his head. The compromise that King Bran makes neither party happy, but both have no choice but to accept it, with Sansa and Arya understanding that Bran needs to make peace. Jon shakily asks, "Was it right? What I did?"  but Tyrion corrects him by saying "What they did." However, Jon responds that killing Daenerys doesn't feel right and Tyrion tells him to ask him again in ten years. However, Jon believes they won't ever see each other again, but Tyrion is not so sure, "A few years as Hand of the King would make anyone want to piss off the edge of the world."
A defeated Jon is shown leaving King's Landing. As he is brought to the port so he can set sail for Castle Black, the city is bustling with people again with much of the city having been rebuilt. As Jon passes Grey Worm's ship, their eyes meet as Grey Worm gives him a fierce look, showing that he'll never forgive Jon for killing Daenerys. Grey Worm then takes the Unsullied and sails for the island of Naath, keeping his promise to Missandei of protecting her people.
The Starks bid farewell to each other.
Sansa, Arya, and King Bran meet Jon at the harbor before he leaves. Sansa asks for Jon's forgiveness, but Jon hesitates. He then tells her that she has gained independence for the North. However, she replies that the North has lost its king, but Jon tells her, "Ned Stark's daughter will speak for them. She's the best they could ask for." The siblings then share an emotional hug. Turning to Arya, Jon tells her that she can come and see him at Castle Black, but she gives him a sad smile and tells him she's not coming back North. When Sansa asks her on where she's going, Arya asks Jon of "What's west of Westeros", revealing that she is going beyond the Sunset Sea. Jon returns her sad smile, saying "I don't know," and Arya replies that no one knows what's beyond West, since it's where all the Westerosi maps stop, and that's where she is going." When Jon asks her if she has her sword Needle, she replies that she has it with her and starts to cry. Jon wipes away his sister's tear and they both share a long hug. Jon turns to King Bran and kneels before him, apologizing for not being there when he needs him. However, his paternal-cousin responds, "You were exactly where you needed to be," in his usual quizzical fashion. After this Jon gets up, and, after a few moments of looking at his family one last time, he leaves for the boat that is waiting to take him to Castle Black. The Starks then separate, never to meet again.
Elsewhere, in the Red Keep, Brienne, who became the commander of Bran's Kingsguard, is going through The Book of Brothers and finishes the record for Jaime. Reluctantly she adds, "Died protecting his Queen," with tears in her eyes.
Tyrion, at the Small Council chambers, is met by Davos and Bronn, now Lord of Highgarden. Sam also arrives, now appearing to be the Grand Maester, and presents a book called A Song of Ice and Fire, written by himself and Archmaester Ebrose, about the wars after Robert's Rebellion. Tyrion asks whether he is mentioned in a positive or negative light. Sam informs him that he is not mentioned at all, much to everyone's amusement. Brienne and King Bran also arrive. Bran tells his advisors that they lack Masters of Whisperers, War, and Law to which Tyrion replies that suitable candidates for the titles will be brought to him in the coming weeks. When Bran asks on the whereabouts of Drogon, Sam replies that the dragon was last spotted flying East to Volantis, but Bronn cuts him off saying,"The farther away, the better." Since no one could give a satisfying answer, Bran decides to search for Drogon himself and leaves the room with Podrick, who is now a knight. Shortly after the new king's departure, Tyrion asks Bronn, who is also the Master of Coin, to provide food supplies from Highgarden, to which he assents with Davos asking for funds for rebuilding the navy. Tyrion talks about building a good sewer system to improve the hygiene of the city while Bronn talks about rebuilding brothels and they start squabbling with each other, apparently signaling a return to normalcy.
Wearing the black garb of the Night's Watch, Jon reaches Castle Black and sees Tormund on the castle walls, who gives Jon a sympathetic look. Jon reunites with his direwolf, Ghost, with Ghost now missing an ear and visibly scarred like Jon. Meanwhile, Sansa takes on the mantle of Queen in the North at Winterfell.
Jon heads beyond the Wall.
As for Arya, she, looking content, stands on the bow of her own ship which flies the Stark banner; she sails forth towards unknown lands and an uncertain fate.
Back at the Wall, Jon and Tormund lead the wildlings outside the gates of Castle Black. As they walk beyond the Wall, Jon silently watches the gate close behind them and then, looking at the wildling men, women, and children as they make their way, has a brief look of peace. He rides among the group as they progress to the true North, the wildling people finally free from what has haunted them for thousands of years. As they walk by, a piece of grass can be seen emerging from the thawing snow as the first signs of spring begin to slowly appear in Westeros.
Jon Snow: "You are my queen. Now and always."
Hae elēni ā iepagon (I remember a land)
Tcheret gere vēja pelothos (Glorious people lived there)
Tchaïmè leda kivio yn tegon (Formidable dragons flew there)
Tchere iā mili bano (Strong hearts were beating there)
Dori mēha eee tchaïmè na (Someday we will rise from the ashes)
Tchoile ka eee tchaïvei ja (And bring back our majesty)
Sophie Belinda Jonas (née Turner; born 21 February 1996) is an English actress. She made her television debut in HBO's Game of Thrones as Sansa Stark. She was part of the initial starring cast and remained a member of the starring cast for the eighth season.
Sophie Belinda Turner was born in England on 21 February 1996, the daughter of Sally, a nursery school teacher, and Andrew, who works for a pallet distribution company. She moved to Chesterton, Warwickshire when she was 2 years old. She attended Warwick Prep School until she was 11, and later attended the independent The King's High School for Girls. Turner has been a member of the theatre company Playbox Theatre Company since she was 3 years old. She has two older brothers, James and Will, whom she considers among her best friends (alongside co-star Maisie Williams). Her twin died before birth.
At age 11, Turner was on track to become a prima ballerina, but she turned down a spot with London's prestigious Royal Ballet School in order to pursue an acting career.
In October 2017 Sophie Turner officially announced her engagement to singer Joe Jonas through Instagram. They were married on May 1, 2019, right after the 2019 Billboard Music Awards, in Las Vegas, Nevada. They repeated their vows on 29 June 2019 in the presence of friends and family in France. Maisie Williams was her maid of honour. The couple welcomed their first child, daughter Willa, on 22 July, 2020.
Turner was cast as Sansa Stark when she was 13 years old when a nation-wide talent search canvassed her school in rural Warwickshire, England. She continued to live at her parents' home during the filming of the earlier seasons of the TV series; alternating between six months of filming and six months at home. By Season 6 she bought an apartment in London, but she said she's only stayed there for a total of maybe two weeks, as a stop-over point when she is traveling for public appearances or to use the airport.
Regarding her character, Turner said in The Sunday Times before the Season 4 premiere:
Turner actually has "naturally baby blonde hair", so her hair had to be dyed for Sansa's auburn hair. The Starks have black hair, while the Tullys have auburn hair, and Sansa is stated in the books to take after her mother Catelyn Tully in appearance. When Sansa flees to the Vale with Littlefinger, she dyes her hair black to hide her true identity (corresponding to the end of Season 4 in the TV series).
On January 23, 2015, it was confirmed by director Bryan Singer that Sophie would appear in X-Men: Apocalypse (which is set in the 1980s) as young Jean Grey. Turner later speculated that the "Dark Sansa" persona played a role in her casting.
Lady Lyanna Mormont was the young Lady of Bear Island and head of House Mormont following the death of her mother, Maege Mormont, in the War of the Five Kings.
Lyanna Mormont was the daughter of Maege Mormont, the niece of Lord Commander of the Night's Watch Jeor Mormont and the first cousin of Jorah Mormont. She was named after Lyanna Stark, who died years before she was born. After her mother's older brother Jeor joined the Night's Watch and his only son Jorah exiled to Essos, Maege Mormont became Lady of Bear Island. When Maege left to fight in the War of the Five Kings, Lyanna ruled Bear Island in her mother's stead, eventually taking Maege's place upon her death in combat.
House Mormont's domains are poor on their heavily forested island, vulnerable to attack from the sea, meaning that the Mormonts have had to develop a strong tradition of warrior women to defend their homes from surprise raids. Maege Mormont personally led and fought beside the Mormont contingent in Robb Stark's army. Maege's daughter Lyanna was similarly raised, expecting to be a ruler and commander - unlike many other Houses, even in the North, that usually do not allow women to rule.[citation needed]
Along with the other Stark vassals of the North, House Mormont's army was slaughtered at the Red Wedding, leaving their home garrison with only sixty two remaining warriors - led by a ten year old Lyanna, because most of their people of fighting age had been killed.
Lyanna's message to Stannis, which reads: "Bear Island knows no king but the King in the North, whose name is Stark."
Stannis Baratheon has come to Castle Black and sent ravens to all the noble houses of the North with messages demanding them to join his cause. Lyanna Mormont sends back a rebuff that she and Bear Island know no other king but the King in the North, whose name is Stark. An irate Stannis shows the message to Jon Snow, who smiles briefly and points out that, much like the Free Folk, the Northmen are loyal to their own.
Lyanna receives House Stark.
Lyanna is one of the Northern leaders being visited by Jon Snow, Sansa Stark, and Davos Seaworth, who are attempting to rally the North against House Bolton who currently occupies Winterfell. Sansa and Jon try to flatter her, but Lyanna brusquely brushes them off, demands to know why they are at Bear Island, and questions whether Jon and Sansa are technically even Starks, the former being a bastard, and the latter being twice married into enemy houses. She refuses to offer her men to them until Davos steps in.
Lyanna personally leading men when Jon travels to Stannis' old camp.
He tells her that the real war is not between different houses, but between the living and the dead; a divided North cannot hope to stand against the Night King. After some reflection, Lady Mormont agrees to help, but can only offer sixty-two fighting men (as so many of their soldiers were massacred at the Red Wedding). Undaunted, she insists that the hardy warriors of Bear Island are worth many times their own number in battle. She personally leads these men when Jon travels to Stannis's old camp.
Lyanna scowls at Ramsay Bolton during the parley before the battle.
Lyanna is present when Jon and Sansa parley with Ramsay Bolton ahead of their battle. She doesn't speak, but scowls at Ramsay when he mockingly says he'll pardon any Northern lords for treason if they lay down their arms (knowing everything he says is a lie). She does not fight during the battle itself, and presumably stayed behind at the camp.
Lyanna is among those present at Winterfell after the battle. As the knights of the Vale, the many Northern lords, and the Free Folk bicker, she stands in the assembly and calls out the Manderlys, Glovers, and Cerwyns for refusing Jon and Sansa's call to arms. She then declares that she doesn't care if Jon is a bastard, because Ned Stark's blood runs through his veins. She is the first to proclaim Jon the new King in the North, and is quickly followed by the others.
Lyanna at a meeting at Winterfell.
Lady Lyanna is present at a meeting of Jon Snow's allied forces. When Lord Robett Glover protests at the King in the North's orders that everyone over the age of 10 be trained for combat, regardless of gender, Lyanna counters that she will train all on Bear Island against the coming White Walkers, stating that she does not intend to sit by her fire knitting while men fight to defend her. Lord Glover tries to apologize and withdraws his complaint.
When Jon is called to Dragonstone by Daenerys Targaryen regarding a potential alliance, Lyanna states that with winter here, the North needs their King with them. Jon responds that this is something he must do if they are to survive, so he departs with Davos while leaving Sansa in control of the North.
Lyanna questions Jon's abdication.
Lyanna Mormont is present at Winterfell when Jon Snow returns with Daenerys and her armies. When Jon introduces Daenerys to Sansa, Lyanna looks distrustfully to the Dragon Queen. Later at a meeting, Lyanna firmly criticizes Jon Snow for renouncing his crown as King in the North, even going so far as openly questioning whatever Jon is after he declared Daenerys as his queen. However, Lady Mormont sits down when Jon states that he brought the North a strong ally and that it doesn't matter whether he is their king.
As Winterfell prepares for the imminent arrival of the army of the dead, Lyanna and her cousin Jorah have an argument in the courtyard. Jorah strongly advises her to remain out of the fray, as she is the future of House Mormont, but Lyanna stoutly refuses, wishing her cousin good luck before leading her men away.
Lyanna kills a wight giant as it crushes her.
During the Battle of Winterfell, Lyanna commands the defense of Winterfell's courtyard. After the castle's walls are breached, a wight giant storms through the gates of Winterfell and knocks Lyanna out of his way. Injured, she gets up and charges toward the Giant, but he lifts her, crushing both her and her armor with his clenching fist. Near death, Lyanna musters the strength to deliver a final blow, a dragonglass dagger straight into the Giant's eye, killing him. The giant falls dead and Lyanna succumbs to her injuries. When the Night King brings back the dead, Lyanna is resurrected, but once the Night King is killed by Arya Stark, it is presumed she is wiped out along with the rest of the wights and White Walkers (unless she was already destroyed in the fighting).
Lyanna's body on a funeral pyre.
Together with the others fallen in the battle, Lyanna's body is placed on a funeral pyre. Jon Snow sadly looks upon her before he lights the pyre.
Despite her young age, Lyanna is shown to be a competent, commanding, effective, and intelligent leader, in sharp contrast to the psychopathic and sadistic Joffrey, timid and passive Tommen, and developmentally challenged Robin Arryn. While she emanates self-confidence, she does not hesitate to consult her advisors if she sees the need. At the same time, she is not overly-reliant on her advisors, and will wave aside her maester if she has reached a firm decision already. As a female and the only living heir of a major Northern house, Lyanna challenges and strives to live up to the expectations placed upon her, and behaves in a stern, no-nonsense manner when negotiating with other houses. She is extremely proud of her house, and she is devoted to protecting Bear Island's people, indicating that she views this responsibility with the utmost solemnity. Though Lyanna shares her family's fierce loyalty to House Stark, she was initially reluctant to help Jon and Sansa fight the Boltons until Ser Davos convinced her, comparing their recent rises to power and informing her of the greater threat beyond the Wall.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Lyanna Mormont is the youngest of Maege's five daughters, and the only one to remain at Bear Island during the War of the Five Kings. She is ten years old at the time King Stannis arrives in the North.
Closeup image of Maege Mormont, Lyanna's mother, who appeared as a non-speaking cameo among Robb's lieutenants in Season 1 of the TV series.
Maege Mormont has five daughters in the novels: Dacey, Alysane, Lyra, Jorelle, and Lyanna. She has no sons. Oddly, the identity of their father has never been mentioned, and he is presumably dead by this point. The fact that Maege's daughters all use the name "Mormont" may indicate that he was a member of a minor noble House (noblewomen sometimes retain their maiden name and pass it to their children if they marry into a less prominent House). Alysane has two small children of her own, a daughter and a son - but no one has any idea who the father is. When asked, Alysane will only claim that they were fathered by a bear - apparently no one dares call her children bastards. Maege herself may have done the same thing - never marrying and just presenting her daughters as lawful - but this is unlikely, given that Maege's eldest daughter was born 15 years before Lyanna: five daughters in a row across 15 years doesn't seem like the product of a one-time encounter out of wedlock. The most prominent of Maege's daughters in the early novels was her eldest, Dacey, a warrior-woman like her mother who was a member of Robb Stark's personal bodyguard. Dacey was killed at the Red Wedding - she was the only one of Robb's lieutenants who managed to run through the hail of crossbow bolts and reach the hall's doors, but only to run right into Frey reinforcements who drove an axe into her belly.
The TV adaptation simplified this to omit Dacey, and condensed Maege's younger four daughters into just Lyanna. Nonetheless, even in the books it is specifically Lyanna Mormont who sends the letter to Stannis, as she did in Season 5 of the TV series.
In the fifth novel, Stannis sends out letters demanding the Northern lords bend the knee to him, but receives the response from Lyanna (the same as in the TV show) that "Bear Island knows no king but the King in the North, whose name is Stark". Stannis has no idea who Lyanna Mormont is, and asks Jon Snow to identify her. As in the TV version, Jon says to Stannis that she is the Lady of Bear Island - though inwardly Jon thinks to himself that she actually isn't, because she has older sisters, and wonders why she would be identified as such in the letter. The answer is given by Alysane: on the way to Winterfell, she tells Stannis's captive Asha Greyjoy that her sisters Lyra and Jorelle are with their mother. Hence, by default, Lyanna is acting "Lady of Bear Island", while her mother and older sisters are away, similar to how Bran Stark was the acting "Lord of Winterfell" in Season 2, when his older brother Robb was not physically present to rule.
Some time after sending the rejection letter, however, Lyanna apparently changed her mind about supporting Stannis: a Mormont force, led by Alysane, assists him to liberate Deepwood Motte. Jon had given Stannis advice that the Northern vassals wouldn't just declare for him and send soldiers to his army at the Wall: instead he needed to take her army out and help the Northerners drive out their shared enemies, to win their allegiance by fighting side by side with them. Stannis writes a letter back to Jon recounting the battle: "we had other help, unexpected but most welcome, from a daughter of Bear Island. Alysane Mormont, whose men name her the She-Bear, hid fighters inside a gaggle of fishing sloops and took the ironmen unawares where they lay off the strand". Afterwards the Mormonts openly side with Stannis and join their force to his campaign against the Boltons, alongside other Northern vassals such as the Glovers. Lyanna is apparently still considered too young, and instead of going herself, her older sister Alysane accompanies their contingent in Stannis's army.
Bear Island is located off the northwest coast of the North, making it vulnerable to attack by sea from both the ironborn and the wildlings.
It is Alysane in the novels who specifically explains Asha that the women of House Mormont are raised to be tough warriors and leaders in their own right because Bear Island is constantly under threat of raids from the sea. Being located off the northwest coast of "the North", they are under threat from both attacks by the ironborn from the south, and from wildlings in smaller boats coming down from the Frozen Shore to the north. Their lands are so poor and hardscrabble that they gain most of their sustenance from the sea, so the men are out in fishing boats all day struggling to catch enough to feed everyone. This left the women behind on the island, so they had to be ready to defend their homes, their children, and themselves from raiders. This explains why both Maege and her daughter Lyanna in the TV series are tough warriors and confident political leaders in their own right - it is a local tradition of House Mormont that even the rest of the North doesn't share.
Other than her letter to Stannis, Lyanna herself has not personally appeared in the narrative of the novels - but her sisters Dacey and Alysane have, and TV-Lyanna's characterization seems based on their appearances (as they were all condensed into one character).
In the novels, it is uncertain if Maege Mormont is still alive. She was not present for the Red Wedding because Robb sent her and Galbart Glover on ahead to the Crannogmen of House Reed in the Neck, to prepare them for a push to retake Moat Cailin from the ironborn. Alysane's above mentioned comment implies that Maege's whereabouts and activities following the Red Wedding are known only to her daughters, perhaps to be revealed in later novels. The TV version simplified this to simply say that Maege died off-screen at some point "fighting for Robb" in the war, thus making Lyanna the official new head of House Mormont, not just the acting leader.
Lyanna Mormont was named directly after Lyanna Stark, Jon and Sansa's aunt who died in Robert's Rebellion, and who also appeared in Season 6 in flashbacks (both Lyannas appear in the Season 6 finale). In Lyanna Mormont's first episode ("The Broken Man") it was stated in dialogue that she was named after Lyanna Stark (as opposed to "Lyanna" just being a common name in the North).
George R.R. Martin made it a point to have multiple characters appear in the story who have the same given name, as it would be unrealistic if "Robert Baratheon" was literally the only person in the entire continent of Westeros named "Robert". Martin explicitly did this due to the freedom of constraints he had when writing a novel - after the heavy restraints on his screenwriting for television, which directly commanded that he never have two characters with the same first name. The TV series, however, reversed this in many cases, because it doesn't have as much time to explain character relations as clearly as a book can, i.e. also in Season 6, the Karstarks are led by "Harald Karstark", as opposed to his brother from the novels, "Eddard Karstark" - apparently because it was feared viewers would confuse this with "Eddard Stark" himself.
Lyanna Mormont is thus one of the few cases of a repeated first name in the TV series (outside of a dynasty) - probably because it's a plot point that her family is so attached to the Starks they named their children after them.
"The Broken Man" is the seventh episode of the sixth season of Game of Thrones. It is the fifty-seventh episode of the series overall. It premiered on June 5, 2016 on HBO. It was written by Bryan Cogman and directed by Mark Mylod.
The High Sparrow eyes another target. Jaime confronts a hero. Arya makes a plan. The North is reminded.
Sandor works with the congregation.
Revealed to have survived his wounds from his battle with Brienne, Sandor Clegane lives with a band of villagers. Brother Ray, their leader, is a septon. He talks with Sandor, and recounts how he had saved Sandor's life after having mistaken him for a corpse. When Ray mentions Justice, Sandor remarks that if there was justice in the world, he should have been punished. Ray responds that perhaps he has been punished already.
At a gathering, a trio of men from the Brotherhood Without Banners arrives and attempts to extort the group, but upon finding out that the group has no worthwhile possessions, they leave. Sandor warns the septon that the Brotherhood will return, and that Ray should defend himself from them. He tells Sandor that "Violence is a disease—you don’t cure it by spreading it to more people." Sandor replies that you don't cure it by dying either. Later, while he goes out to the forest to chop wood, he returns to find all of the villagers murdered and the septon hanged. Angered, Sandor picks up an axe and heads off.
Jaime arrives for the siege.
Meanwhile, Jaime and Bronn lead the Lannister army to the gates of Riverrun, where the Freys attempt to coerce the Blackfish into surrendering the castle by threatening to execute Edmure Tully. The Blackfish calls their bluff and refuses to surrender. Disgusted with the Freys' incompetence, Jaime takes charge of the siege and attempts to parley with the Blackfish, warning him that the Lannisters will show no mercy to the Tullys, but if he surrenders, the lives of his men will be spared. The Blackfish rejects the offer and warns Jaime that he has two years worth of food in his stronghold, and that while hundreds of his own men may die defending, thousands of Lannister troops will perish as well.
Queen Margaery is studying The Seven-Pointed Star at the Sept when the High Sparrow enters and they discuss the passage she's been reading, which is about the Mother's love and mercy. Margaery notes that in the past she pretended to love the poor when in fact she only really pitied them. The High Sparrow asks her why she hasn't joined King Tommen in the marriage bed, and Margaery explains that the desires that once drove her no longer do so. The High Sparrow assures her that desire is not necessary. She has a duty to produce an heir. The High Sparrow then makes a thinly veiled threat against Margaery's grandmother, Olenna Tyrell, stating that while she is a remarkable woman, she is also an unrepentant sinner.
Margaery bids farewell to her grandmother.
After Margaery returns to the Red Keep, Olenna meets with her under the supervision of Septa Unella. Olenna insults the septa until Margaery comes to Unella's defense. Olenna pulls Margaery into another room in an attempt to gain some privacy, but Unella simply follows them. Olenna threatens to have her guards come in, but Margaery again defends the septa. She states that Unella has been a true friend and teacher, to which Olenna asks with some horror what the Sparrows have done to her. Margaery replies that the gods could have punished Olenna and her allies for marching on the Great Sept, but instead they showed mercy. Olenna retorts that they marched on the Sept for Margaery and Loras' sake, and that Loras is still in prison. She then tries to convince Margaery to leave King's Landing and return to Highgarden. However, Margaery refuses, stating that her duty requires her to be at King Tommen's side.
Margaery instead pleads for Olenna to return to Highgarden instead. As she emphatically tells her grandmother to return home, Margaery secretly slips a piece of paper into Olenna's hand. In doing so, she seems to have successfully communicated to Olenna that she doesn't quite mean what she's been saying in front of Septa Unella, and Olenna's expression changes, realizing this. She plays along and agrees to acquiesce, then walks away.
As soon as she is clear of them, Olenna privately unfolds the piece of paper and finds that there is a rose drawn on it. She seems cheered by the silent message, as the use of the Tyrell sigil indicates that Margaery is merely tricking the Sparrows and that her true loyalty is still to House Tyrell. She also seems to understand that Margaery is urging her to leave for her own safety.
Cersei confronts Olenna.
Cersei later confronts Olenna about her plans to leave, telling her to remain for the sake of Margaery and Loras, who is still imprisoned. Olenna retorts that the reason all of this is happening is because of Cersei, as she was the one who allowed the Faith Militant to reform and allowed them to arrest Loras and Margaery. Cersei admits that she made a mistake with the Sparrows, but insists that an alliance between the Lannisters and Tyrells is more important now than it ever was. Olenna refuses her, noting that Cersei has neither influence nor support anymore and is surrounded by enemies. She tells Cersei that she (Olenna) will be leaving the city as soon as possible, and that Cersei's utter defeat is her only consolation.
Jon, Sansa, and Davos begin searching for allies to retake Winterfell from Ramsay. First, with the help of Tormund and Wun Wun, they secure the allegiance of the wildlings and their elders led by Dim Dalba, who are still indebted to Jon for saving them at Hardhome and are aware that Ramsay and his allies will wipe them out if they do nothing. When the meeting disperses, Jon asks Tormund if he's sure that the Free Folk will join him, and Tormund responds: We’re not clever like you southerners. When we say we'll do something, we do it. Prior to traveling to Bear Island, Davos shows Jon and Sansa the letter sent by Lyanna Mormont rejecting Stannis Baratheon's plea for help.
Jon, Sansa, and Davos travel to Bear Island, where they meet with Lyanna, the ten-year old head of House Mormont. Sansa and Jon try to flatter her with small talk about her mother Maege and uncle Jeor Mormont. However, Lyanna is unimpressed and aggressively brushes them off, demanding to know their business in Bear Island. Lyanna initially rejects their request for help and stresses that House Stark is dead and that she needs her forces to garrison Bear Island. She also remarks that Jon and Sansa cannot be considered Starks since the former is a bastard and the latter has been married twice into enemy houses. Lyanna is initially unconcerned about the threat of Ramsay. Before Lyanna can dismiss them, Davos intervenes. After briefly discussing his background, Davos manages to convince the young Lady Mormont by warning her about the dangers the White Walkers pose to the living. She agrees to contribute 62 men, which is all she can manage, but promises that each Mormont soldier fights with the strength of ten men. Davos remarks that if they are half as ferocious as their lady, the Boltons will be doomed.
Sansa and Jon try to recruit House Glover.
Later, Jon and Sansa travel to Deepwood Motte to secure the allegiance of House Glover. They receive a frosty reception from Robett Glover, who points out that the late King Robb failed to protect his home from the ironborn. Despite his being one of the Starks' most loyal bannermen, Robb did not come to his aid when the Ironborn invaded Deepwood Motte, imprisoned his wife and children, and brutalized his subjects (unaware that this was Robb's intention, but he was persuaded otherwise by Roose Bolton). When Sansa tries to highlight the fact that the Glovers had pledged fealty to House Stark, Robett responds that he received them out of respect for their father, but warns them that they have outstayed their welcome.
In the end, Jon and Sansa manage to recruit only three minor houses (House Mormont, House Hornwood, and House Mazin), adding only 405 soldiers to their army. Lyanna and her men are seen among the Stark and wildling forces. Davos deals with a brawl among the wildlings and Northern soldiers. Despite being heavily outnumbered, Jon is adamant that they attack Winterfell as soon as possible before Ramsay rallies more forces and before the weather turns on them. Sansa disagrees, instead opting to try and recruit more houses (House Cerwyn). When Jon refuses to change his mind, Sansa begins writing a letter, later revealed to be sent by raven to Littlefinger, taking him up on the offer for troops she previously rejected.
Theon and Yara take the Iron Fleet to Volantis to hide and rest. Inside a brothel, Theon sits despondently as Yara and the others carouse with naked and semi-naked prostitutes. Yara repeatedly tells Theon to drink some ale and he repeatedly refuses.
Theon Greyjoy returns.
Yara is persuading Theon to regain his former identity and self confidence, as she will need his assistance in getting justice and retaking the Iron Islands from their uncle Euron. When pressed, he says that if justice were served, he would be burnt for his crimes, so she responds, “Fuck justice then. Do it for revenge.” Eventually she convinces him to put his guilt aside and help her because she needs him. He drinks some ale and begins to gain some composure.
She then reveals to Theon that she plans to take the Iron Fleet to Meereen and forge an alliance with Daenerys before Euron does. After the conversation, she goes to have sex with a female prostitute.
Arya is stabbed by the Waif.
Although we last saw Arya hiding in the dark with Needle in her hand, the scene opens with Arya walking openly through Braavos without Needle, with her hands behind her back. She approaches two Westerosi traders drinking at an outdoor table and negotiates passage to Westeros at dawn, through the use of large bags of money she shows them.
We next see Arya standing on a bridge admiring a view of the Titan of Braavos when an old woman approaches her and reveals herself to be the Waif, who repeatedly stabs her in the gut, twisting the knife as she does. Arya escapes by leaping over the handrail and into the River. She is left stumbling through the streets of Braavos, leaving a trail of blood droplets and visibly afraid.
Lyanna Mormont: "My mother wasn't a great beauty or any other kind of beauty. She was a great warrior though. She died fighting for your brother, Robb."
Lyanna Mormont: "We are not a large house, but we're a proud one. And every man from Bear Island fights with the strength of ten mainlanders."
Davos Seaworth: "If they're half as ferocious as their lady, the Boltons are doomed."
Ray: "All I can do with the time I've got left is bring a little goodness into the world. That's all any of us can do, isn't it?"
Bronn: "You promised me a lordship and a castle and a highborn beauty for a wife."
Jaime Lannister: "And you'll get all three. A Lannister always..."
Bronn: "Don't say it. Don't fucking say it."
Jaime Lannister: Only a fool makes threats he's not prepared to carry out. Let's say...I threatend to hit you, unless you shut your mouth, but you kept talking. What do you think I'd do?"
Walder Rivers: "I don't give a rotten..."
[Jaime back-hands him mid-sentence.]
Jaime: "We'll breach them and kill every last one of you. But if you surrender, I'll spare the lives of your men. On my honor."
Brynden Tully: "Your honor? Bargaining with oathbreakers is like building on quicksand."
Jaime: "The war is over, Ser. Why sacrifice living men to a lost cause?"
Brynden: "As long as I'm standing, the war is not over. This is my home. I was born in this castle and I'm ready to die in it."
Robett Glover: "Yes, my family served House Stark for centuries. We wept when we heard of your father's death. When my brother was lord of this castle, he answered Robb's call and hailed him King in the North. And where was King Robb when the ironborn attacked this castle? When they threw my wife and children in prison and brutalized and killed our subjects? Taking up with a foreign whore. Getting himself and those who followed him killed. I served House Stark once, but House Stark is dead."
Lyanna's message to Stannis, which reads: "Bear Island knows no king but the King in the North, whose name is Stark."
Robett Glover, standing in front of a banner displaying House Glover's heraldry.
Yara and Theon Greyjoy lead the Iron Fleet east to Volantis.
Yara Greyjoy kissing a female prostitute in Volantis in this episode.  Martin directly stated that Yara's character in the books actually isn't bisexual - though several other characters had bisexual experiences which were cut from the TV show.
Histories & Lore:"Greyjoy Rebellion: Robb Stark""Robert's Rebellion: Stannis Baratheon""House Clegane""The Westerlands""Dragonstone""Robert's Rebellion: Oberyn Martell"
King Joffrey I Baratheon was the eighteenth king to rule from the Iron Throne and the second king of the Baratheon dynasty. Though believed by most to be the eldest son of King Robert Baratheon and Queen Cersei Lannister, Joffrey is actually a bastard born from Cersei's incestuous relationship with her twin brother Jaime Lannister. He is the older brother of Myrcella and Tommen Baratheon.
Joffrey's reckless decision to execute Ned Stark on false charges of treason ignited the War of the Five Kings.
Joffrey is believed to be the oldest son and heir of King Robert Baratheon and Queen Cersei Lannister, both of whom entered into a marriage of political alliance after Robert took the throne by force from the "Mad King," Aerys II Targaryen. In reality, his father is Jaime Lannister, Cersei's brother, the murderer of Aerys and the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. His sole biological grandparents, Tywin and Joanna Lannister, were also first cousins. He has two younger siblings, Myrcella and Tommen Baratheon, who are also a product of incest between Jaime and Cersei (despite this, only Joffrey himself shows any psychopathic traits, presumably as a result of his inbred origins).
Joffrey takes after his mother in terms of looks and personality, his blond hair being a subtle clue that he isn't really a Baratheon, who famously always possess black hair even when only one parent is Baratheon. Cersei herself lets it slip to Catelyn Stark that she once had a child with black hair who died prematurely of a fever before she had Joffrey. He is usually accompanied by his sworn shield, the formidable Sandor Clegane, better known as the Hound. Even before he ascends to the Iron Throne, Joffrey is spoiled, arrogant, cowardly, childish and sadistic, though he tends to hide these traits before his ascension, appearing to be the typical charming heir to Seven Kingdoms. However, these traits are further exacerbated upon Robert's death and his ascension to the crown, proving to be one of the most twisted and malevolent Westerosi monarchs.
Joffrey flirts with Sansa during a feast at Winterfell.
Prince Joffrey accompanies his parents to Winterfell and is betrothed to marry Sansa Stark as part of King Robert's plan unite House Baratheon to House Stark by blood. Both seem happy with the prospect, and Joffrey is charming and polite towards Sansa, who later confides in her mother that she wishes to marry Joffrey. The engagement between the two of them had previously been requested by Robert, but Catelyn reminds Sansa that her father has not agreed to the match (which he eventually does, as well as his own installment as Hand of the King).
However, he shows no sympathy when Bran falls from a tower and is severely injured, and has to be physically chastised by his uncle Tyrion before he will pay his respects to Bran's parents. While on the Kingsroad to King's Landing, Joffrey is walking with Sansa and chances upon her sister Arya practicing sword play with a commoner, Mycah. Joffrey sees a chance to have some fun with Mycah, who is too scared to move. Joffrey accuses him of assault on a noble girl and starts to slice into his face with his sword. Enraged, Arya hits Joffrey, allowing Mycah to get away.
Nymeria bites Joffrey.
When Joffrey turns on Arya and threatens her, her direwolf Nymeria reacts in defense of her mistress and mauls Joffrey's right arm, and Arya throws his sword in the river. Joffrey begs for his life. Sansa offers her aid, but Joffrey refuses her help because she saw him so weak and defeated. Later, he lies about the incident and says he was attacked in an unprovoked manner. King Robert knows Joffrey is lying, and is disgusted that Joffrey let a little girl disarm him, but agrees to forget about the incident in return for the death of Nymeria. When she cannot be found, Sansa's direwolf Lady is executed instead.
Cersei informs Joffrey of their enemies.
In King's Landing, Joffrey tells his mother about how he would handle the people of the North as she treats his injury. He suggests capturing Winterfell, taxing the people hard and forcing their warriors to join a "royal army." Cersei elucidates the flaws in his plan and warns Joffrey that a king needs to be more careful in choosing his battles. Cersei tells her son that, "Everyone who isn't us is an enemy." She also urges Joffrey to do something nice for Sansa to win back her goodwill.
Eddard Stark discovers that Joffrey isn't King Robert's son and rightful heir, by examining the family history and realizing that black hair is a dominant trait in the Baratheon line. Eddard realizes that Joffrey's true parentage can be attributed to the incestuous relationship between his mother and his "uncle" Jaime Lannister. Meanwhile, Joffrey wins back Sansa's affection by giving her a pendant.
Joffrey sits on the Iron Throne following his father's death.
When King Robert Baratheon is grievously wounded in a hunting accident, he talks to Joffrey on his death bed and says he should have been a better father. After his death, Joffrey ascends to the Iron Throne, and orders that preparations be made to crown him within the fortnight. Eddard refuses to recognize Joffrey's claim to the Iron Throne. He presents a proclamation from Robert making him Regent and Protector of the Realm to enforce his authority, but Cersei tears up the document. Eddard expects Lord Petyr Baelish and Commander Janos Slynt of the City Watch to take Cersei and Joffrey prisoner, but is betrayed. Eddard is taken into custody and his remaining guards and household are murdered.
Sansa is taken captive as well, but Arya manages to escape into the city thanks to her dancing teacher Syrio Forel. Influenced by his mother, Joffrey dismisses Ser Barristan Selmy from the Kingsguard and names his "uncle" Jaime as the new Lord Commander. Barristan is shocked, as the Kingsguard are sworn to serve for life, and it is legally impossible to dismiss one of their members. Ser Barristan is further insulted by members of the royal court and draws his sword, sneering that even in his present situation he could still cut his way through all opposition but after a tense moment throws the sword at the foot of the Iron Throne and contemptuously tells the 'boy' to melt it down and add it to the rest before storming out. Joffrey listens to Sansa's pleas for her father, and he agrees to show mercy to Lord Eddard if he admits treason and recants his claim that Joffrey has no right to the throne. Sansa assures him that he will.
Joffrey is present at the Great Sept of Baelor for Eddard's public trial where, due to threats to Sansa's life, he confesses to treason and acknowledges Joffrey as the true king. Joffrey, playing to the crowd, reveals that his mother and his betrothed have both urged him to spare Eddard's life and exile him to the Wall (this deal had been worked out by Queen Cersei, Varys, Grand Maester Pycelle, the High Septon and Yoren - who was waiting in the crowd to take him in custody). Joffrey had been told to spare him, but surprises everyone by saying that his mother and betrothed have the weak hearts and constitutions of women, while he has no mercy for traitors.
Joffrey orders Ned's execution.
He orders Ser Ilyn Payne to bring him Eddard's head. While this understandably horrifies Sansa, who vehemently begs for her father's life, it also horrifies both Cersei and the Small Council as they know it will lead to another war. Cersei desperately begs her son to reconsider his sentence, and Varys runs to the king as well. Joffrey refuses to listen and Payne carries out the order, beheading Eddard with his own greatsword and causing Sansa to faint from shock. True enough, Joffrey's impetuous action causes the North to rise in outrage with Ned's oldest son calling the banners and declaring war.
Days later, Joffrey holds court. Marillion sings a song he wrote about King Robert and Queen Cersei, which includes lyrics saying that the boar may have disemboweled Robert, but the "lion in his bed" (the Lannister's sigil is a lion) was the one who tore his balls off. Joffrey is displeased by the song as its insults against his parents. He forces the minstrel to choose between having his hands or tongue removed, then orders Ser Ilyn to instantly carry out the order, ripping out his tongue in front of the entire horrified court. Joffrey and his guards then escort Sansa out of the courtroom.
He states to her that she will be kept captive there and will still marry him; he also casually mentions that his mother said he should "put a son in you" as soon as Sansa has had her blood. They arrive at the castle's wall, where there are several heads mounted on long spikes - one is revealed to be Ned's. She confronts him about his promise to show mercy to her father, but he says it was mercy, as he gave him a quick death. Joffrey angrily points to another spike carrying the head of Septa Mordane. Then Joffrey forces her to look at the severed heads, and he says that he will give her Robb's head on a spike as well if he were to be defeated by the Lannisters, prompting her to reply: "Or maybe he'll give me yours."
Joffrey makes it clear that Sansa should be obedient.
Joffrey is infuriated, but restrains himself from striking her as he says "Mother tells me a king should never strike his lady" - so he simply calls on Ser Meryn Trant to strike her for him, and the knight slaps Sansa hard across the face twice with his armored gauntlet. Sansa notices how Joffrey is standing on a walkway over a steep drop to the stone courtyard below and resolves to push him off while he is distracted, even though it would almost certainly mean her own death. The Hound realizes this and stops her right before she can push him, under the pretense of wiping the blood off her lip. He later asks Petyr Baelish and Varys to begin his first Small Council meeting.
Joffrey celebrates his nameday.
Joffrey rules with cruelty and arrogant whims, while his grandfather Tywin Lannister fights in the War of the Five Kings to secure his hold of the Iron Throne. Joffrey celebrates his nameday with a tourney and continues to torment the captive Sansa Stark, also naming Ser Dontos Hollard as his new fool as punishment for showing up drunk (although would have had him executed if not for Sansa's intervention, whose claim that it is bad luck to execute a man on one's nameday was supported by the Hound).
He is perturbed when his uncle Tyrion Lannister is made acting Hand of the King. Rumors about his parentage begin to circulate and he confronts his mother, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister with them. He asks her about King Robert Baratheon's bastard children and she slaps him. He threatens her life and casually dismisses her before seating himself on the Iron Throne. He then arranges for a city wide massacre of the bastards, causing civil unrest in the capital. Tyrion responds by exiling Janos Slynt and installing Bronn as the replacement Lord Commander of the City Watch.
Joffrey interrogates Sansa following Robb's victories.
Robb Stark continues to win victories against Joffrey's Lannister allies. Furious, Joffrey has Sansa Stark brought into the throne room. Before the whole court, he demands she answer for her brother's treason and threatens to kill her with a crossbow. Instead he orders Meryn Trant to strip and beat her. Tyrion interrupts the proceedings and scolds Joffrey for his behavior, as Sansa is his future queen. When Joffrey retorts that as king he can do whatever he wishes, his uncle reminds him that the mad king thought he could do whatever he wanted as well.
Ros is threatened by Joffrey.
Talking to Bronn, Tyrion decides that Joffrey is at an age when sexual frustration might be an issue, and this could be one reason for his torment of Sansa. He then sends Joffrey two prostitutes, Ros and Daisy, as a belated nameday present. Joffrey forces one prostitute to brutally beat the other whilst threatening them both with a crossbow, as a message to Tyrion that he will tolerate no further interference.
Joffrey sneers at Tommen's emotion.
Joffrey attends the departure of his sister Myrcella Baratheon for Dorne as part of a marriage alliance pact; he notices his little brother Tommen crying and cruelly sneers at him for crying because princes don't cry, reacting with anger when Sansa points out that she saw him cry once. Joffrey is confronted by the populace as he makes his way back to the Red Keep, all of whom are starving and angry.
Joffrey mulls over his anger during the riot.
One onlooker throws some cow dung at him and Joffrey responds petulantly by ordering the several-hundred strong crowd executed, triggering a city wide riot. The guards are quickly overwhelmed by dozens of starving and desperate people and Joffrey barely escapes the riot under the protection of his Kingsguard, City Watch, and Lannister soldiers but then Tyrion publicly berates him for being a "vicious idiot." When they realize Sansa has been lost in the chaos, Joffrey callously commands that she be left to the mob. Tyrion has to point out that if any harm comes to Sansa then his uncle Jaime, a prisoner of the Starks, will be killed in retaliation.
Joffrey and Tyrion discuss Stannis's coming attack.
King Stannis Baratheon sails on King's Landing with a fleet of over 200 ships. Joffrey is determined to fight personally, scaring his mother. Cersei suspects that Tyrion is encouraging Joffrey and plots to blackmail him into ensuring Joffrey's safety by imprisoning his lover. Joffrey tours the sea wall of the city with Tyrion and insists that he will kill Stannis himself. His bravado is undercut by his woeful lack of appreciation of the danger he is in; he stupidly suggests that they should be planning to assault Robb rather than defending their capital.
Joffrey procures a new sword for the Battle of the Blackwater, naming it "Hearteater." He forces Sansa to meet him in the Throne Room before going to the city walls, making her kiss the blade and claiming that when he returns it will have Stannis' blood on it. Sansa carefully undermines his claim by questioning if he will fight in the vanguard. Joffrey is frustrated by not being made aware of Tyrion Lannister's plans to defend the city and angrily threatens his uncle.
Joffrey is bewildered at the absence of the Royal Fleet.
The absence of the Royal Fleet frightens Joffrey. He is unnervingly pleased when Tyrion's wildfire explosion decimates Stannis' fleet. However, his courage wanes when he sees the size of the landing force that comes ashore. A sortie led by the Hound fails to drive the attackers back. The Hound then deserts his place on the Kingsguard rather than go back out. Joffrey is relieved when Ser Lancel Lannister tells him that the Queen has ordered him back to the Red Keep and ignores Tyrion imploring him to stay and lead. His cowardly exit damages the morale of the men but Tyrion is able to rally them into a further sortie, protecting the gates from a battering ram.
Tyrion is wounded during the fighting but the battle is won by the arrival of a host of House Lannister and House Tyrell soldiers under the command of Lord Tywin Lannister. Joffrey rewards Tywin by naming him Savior of the City. He also grants a favor to House Tyrell for their aid and Ser Loras asks Joffrey to unite their houses in marriage. Joffrey balks at setting aside his betrothal to Sansa, but is easily convinced in a sham dialogue with his mother and courtiers and agrees to marry Margaery Tyrell. Sansa herself feigns sorrow, but can barely conceal her delight when out of sight.
Joffrey defends Margaery's charity against Cersei's warnings.
King Joffrey is passing through Flea Bottom in a heavily guarded palanquin. The Riot of King's Landing recently occurred in this part of the city, ignited by him in his arrogance and as such he is terrified of the smallfolk ripping him to pieces like what happened last time. His convoy suddenly stops moving because his betrothed Margaery Tyrell insists on interacting with the smallfolk and visiting an orphanage. Later that night, he has dinner with Margaery, her brother Loras, and his mother Cersei. Cersei tells Margaery that the king barely survived the recent riot, but Joffrey explains that they were not in any real danger. He also defends Margaery's actions, to Cersei's discomfort.
While fitting clothes in his chambers, Cersei asks Joffrey what he thinks about Margaery, and he says the alliance with the Tyrells will help them defeat the northern rebellion. Cersei asks what he thinks about her personally, but Joffrey dismisses her questions. Later, Joffrey summons Margaery to his chambers. Joffrey is holding his new crossbow and asks why she failed to give Renly Baratheon a child. Margaery tells Joffrey that she doesn't believe Renly was interested in women. Joffrey says he is considering making homosexuality punishable by death. He then demonstrates to Margaery how to use a crossbow.
Margaery begins to manipulate Joffrey.
Joffrey, Margaery, Cersei, and Olenna Tyrell are visiting the Great Sept of Baelor, where the royal wedding will be held. Joffrey tells Margaery about the history of the dead Targaryen kings, pointing out Aerion Targaryen in particular and gleefully recalling how he thought drinking wildfire would turn him into a dragon. When they hear a crowd of smallfolk outside Margaery suggests they greet them; Joffrey is reluctant but has the doors opened. Joffrey and Margaery step outside to a happy, cheering crowd, while Cersei looks on angrily.
When Cersei complains that Margaery manipulates her son, Tywin replies that he wishes Cersei could do so. She challenges her father to control his grandson; Tywin says that he will. However, Joffrey's authoritarian cruelty and malignancy is proven to be uncontrollable, since, after Ros is caught spying on Lord Petyr Baelish, so Lord Baelish gives her to Joffrey, who brutally kills her in his chambers with his crossbow.
Tywin councils a frustrated Joffrey.
Joffrey later summons Tywin to the throne room. Joffrey asks for a report of the Small Council meetings, and Tywin invites him to attend the Small Council meetings. Joffrey complains that Tywin holds the meetings in the Tower of the Hand, which requires him to climb many stairs. Joffrey squirms as Tywin approaches the throne, and Tywin tells him that he can be carried to the tower. Joffrey then asks for information on the rumors about Daenerys Targaryen and her dragons. Tywin confirms the rumors are true, and Joffrey demands to know what is being done about it. Tywin tells him it is not his concern, and he should leave such matters to his advisers.
Joffrey laughs at Tyrion's inability to cloak Sansa as his bride.
At the wedding of Tyrion Lannister and Sansa Stark, Joffrey escorts Sansa to the altar in place of her late father. He then removes Tyrion's stool, so he cannot reach Sansa's shoulders to cloak her. Joffrey laughs when Tyrion is unable to cloak her. When Sansa excuses herself from the feast, Joffrey follows her, and suggests he might pay a visit to her chambers that night after Tyrion passes out. Joffrey then calls for the bedding ceremony, and Tyrion insists there will be no bedding ceremony. Tyrion threatens the king with castration, which infuriates Joffrey. Tywin says they can do without the bedding ceremony, and Tyrion says he was only joking, feigning being drunk so as not to anger Joffrey to the point where he might order harm upon him.
Meanwhile, the priestess Melisandre performs a ritual using leeches filled with fresh blood forcibly taken from Gendry. At her direction, Stannis throws the leeches onto a fire and recites the names of three people he wants dead, the usurpers of the Seven Kingdoms: "The usurper Robb Stark, the usurper Balon Greyjoy, the usurper Joffrey Baratheon."
Joffrey gleefully announces the deaths of Robb and Catelyn during a Small Council meeting.
At a meeting of the Small Council, Joffrey gleefully informs Tyrion of the deaths of Robb and Catelyn Stark, brutally slaughtered alongside scores of their bannermen at the Red Wedding. He tells Pycelle to thank Walder Frey for his service and wants to serve Robb's head to Sansa at his wedding feast. Varys and Tyrion take offense to this, and Tyrion threatens the king again. Tywin interjects by saying that he has won Joffrey's war for him. Joffrey angrily states that his supposed father won the real war, while Tywin hid in Casterly Rock. The entire room goes silent and Joffrey realizes that he may have just crossed one line too far. Tywin orders that Joffrey be given essence of nightshade to sedate him. Joffrey is reluctantly taken to his chambers by Cersei.
With Joffrey basking in his "glory," he is not very interested in planning his own wedding, including its security. Jaime attempts to go over this with him, but Joffrey insists to Jaime Lannister that the people of King's Landing know that he "saved the city" in the Battle of the Blackwater and they know that he "won" the War of the Five Kings, and is convinced that there will not be a riot at the wedding. Jaime also decides to personally guard Joffrey, leaving the frustrated Ser Meryn to guard Tommen and Margaery. Joffrey later chastises Jaime for his age and loss of his sword-hand, remarking on his empty pages in the Book of Brothers.
Widow's Wail is gifted to Joffrey.
At a breakfast celebration on his wedding day, Joffrey receives various gifts. Among them, he is given a book by his uncle Tyrion, and a Valyrian steel sword forged from Ned Stark's sword Ice by his grandfather Tywin. Pleased with the gift, he promptly destroys the book with his new sword, to the horror of his guests. He says the sword needs a name; one guest suggests "Widow's Wail", which gains Joffrey's approval, reminiscing that it will remind him of his execution of Eddard.
Joffrey is wed to Margaery.
In the Sept of Baelor at the Purple Wedding celebration, Joffrey and Margaery are wed. At the wedding feast, a band plays "The Rains of Castamere," the song which was played at the Red Wedding as the signal for the massacre to begin; Joffrey throws money at them and tells them to go away. Later, Dontos Hollard performs in front of the royal family and Joffrey promises a gold dragon to whoever knocks Dontos's hat off, which leads to many objects being hurled at his head.
Joffrey celebrates his marriage.
Joffrey then announces some entertainment that he has organized: a group of dwarfs crudely re-enacting the War of the Five Kings and fighting each other. Joffrey laughs hysterically during the show, spitting wine all over himself, though virtually no one else finds the spectacle anything other than disgusting. Once the dwarf show is over, Joffrey turns his attention to Tyrion and suggests he borrow a costume and join in. Tyrion politely declines and suggests that the king himself take part, with a veiled reference to Joffrey's cowardice at the Battle of the Blackwater. Outraged by his uncle's mockery, Joffrey responds by pouring his wine over Tyrion's head and appointing Tyrion his new cupbearer.
A flight of doves is revealed by Joffrey.
As the crowd watches in tense silence, Joffrey drops his goblet and orders Tyrion to pick it up. He then kicks it away and tells Tyrion to pick it up again, as Sansa picks it up and hands it to Tyrion instead. Joffrey demands that Tyrion kneel before him, but Tyrion doesn't move as they glare at each other. The standoff is interrupted by Margaery who announces the arrival of the big wedding pie, which is cut by Joffrey with Widow's Wail, revealing doves hidden inside that burst forth and fly away with the exception of a few unwitting casualties. While Joffrey is eating his pie, he commands Tyrion to stay to bring him his wine.
Joffrey lies dead in his mother's arms after drinking wine poisoned with the strangler.
Tyrion does this and asks to leave, which Joffrey refuses. After drinking his wine, Joffrey begins choking. As he gasps for air he staggers down from the high table and starts vomiting on the floor. Jaime runs from the crowd, and Cersei from the high table. Cersei holds her son in her lap. His face has turned purple, and blood is running from his eyes and nose. With a last gesture, Joffrey looks up at Tyrion, who has picked up the goblet to examine it for poison, lifts an accusing finger in his direction, and then dies of asphyxiation. Cersei immediately accuses Tyrion of poisoning her son and demands that he be arrested.
Joffrey's body is displayed at the Great Sept of Baelor.
Joffrey's funeral is held at the Great Sept of Baelor, which Cersei, Tommen and Tywin attend to pay their respects. Tywin informs Tommen that with Joffrey's death, the crown will pass to him. Though the realm enters the appropriate period of mourning in the wake of the king's death, virtually nobody even bothers to pretend the late king's death was a tragedy. Over Joffrey's corpse, Tywin lectures Tommen on what it takes to be a good king, despite Cersei's feeble complaints that this is neither the time nor the place for this.
He opines that Joffrey was neither a wise nor a good king, and that had he been, he may still be alive. After Tywin leaves and Jaime arrives, Cersei is adamant that it was Tyrion who killed Joffrey, and asks Jaime to kill him to avenge their son. Jaime scornfully asks why he was forced to love such a hateful woman, and rapes Cersei in front of their son's corpse.
After Joffrey's death his younger brother Tommen succeeds him as king. Other than Cersei, Joffrey was not particularly mourned by anyone. Even his own alleged supporters had come to see him as a hindrance to future Lannister political goals. Lord Tywin himself openly scorns Joffrey in front of his own corpse during his wake, openly admitting that his grandson was an awful king and deserved what he got.
Though gone, Joffrey's death has devastating consequences. Tyrion is put on a farcical court trial for Joffrey's murder, prompting him to demand a trial by combat. That decision ultimately leads to the near-fatal injury of Gregor Clegane and the deaths of Prince Oberyn Martell, Shae and Tywin himself. For his part, Tyrion is freed by Jaime from imprisonment and smuggled out of Westeros after he is sentenced to death. Oberyn's death also leads to conflict with Dorne that results in the death of Myrcella. Olenna Tyrell later confides to Margaery that it was she who poisoned Joffrey in order to protect her from Joffrey's beastly nature that he had very clearly displayed with Sansa, and Petyr Baelish reveals to Sansa that he and Dontos Hollard provided Olenna with the poison.
At no point did Joffrey control all of the Seven Kingdoms. In the first year of his reign his faction only controlled the Westerlands, the Crownlands, and a narrow strip of the southern Riverlands between the two. By the second year of his reign, his faction managed to gain control of most of southern Westeros: after the Battle of the Blackwater, he had gained control of the Stormlands and the support of the Reach, with the Vale and Dorne at least neutral to his reign. For the few short weeks between the death of Robb Stark and Joffrey's own death, he nominally extended his control over the North (under the Boltons) and Riverlands (under the Freys), though functional control would take some time, as scattered Stark-Tully holdouts continued to resist and the Boltons were loathed almost universally in the North so no-one followed them wholeheartedly. Stannis remained free and in defiance of Joffrey on Dragonstone, while Joffrey never controlled the Iron Islands at all (with the continued attacks of the ironborn remaining an ongoing problem into his younger brother's reign). The constant civil wars of Joffrey's time on the Iron Throne drained the remaining financial resources of the crown and House Lannister, drastically exacerbating what was already a massive debt crisis with the Iron Bank of Braavos.
Becoming stressed with Jon Snow's reign as King in the North, Sansa remarks that Joffrey showed similar behavior, as he never listens to anyone on how to rule. Jon then questions if he is anything like Joffrey, to which Sansa replies he is the furthest from Joffrey she has ever known. In King's Landing, Cersei reels off a list of her enemies and calls Sansa, who she still believes had a hand in Joffrey's death, a "murdering whore."
During the Sack of Highgarden, Jaime confronts Olenna Tyrell and Olenna notices Jaime is carrying Joffrey's old sword, Widow's Wail. She calls Joffrey a cunt and later informs Jaime that it was her who murdered him, after she herself imbibes poison provided by Jaime. She remarks that she didn't know how vicious her murder of Joffrey would end up being, and to tell Cersei that it was her who did it.
Arya enters Petyr's chamber and rummages through his study and furniture. While searching through his mattress, she finds a scroll written by Sansa. This turns out to be the scroll that Sansa wrote to their late brother Robb Stark urging him to bend the knee to King Joffrey Baratheon. Arya is unaware that Sansa had written the letter under duress from Queen Cersei in an attempt to save their father Eddard Stark.
Jaime reveals to Cersei that Tyrion is innocent of Joffrey's murder, telling her Olenna Tyrell confessed to it. Cersei is dismissive, until Jaime points out Olenna had far more to gain from it than Tyrion; by removing Joffrey, she left Margaery free to marry the more pliable and easily-influenced Tommen. Effectively, Olenna would have become the true ruler of the Seven kingdoms behind the scenes - in the same way that their father Tywin Lannister became the true ruler of Westeros through his grandsons. In reality, Olenna merely sought to protect her granddaughter from Joffrey's beastly nature; the fact that Margaery would then wed the much nicer Tommen was a bonus. Feeling cheated of yet another vengeance, Cersei can barely contain her fury as she laments listening to Jaime, saying Olenna ought to have died screaming. Jaime says she's dead, nonetheless, along with the rest of their family, and that they will go the same way unless they are careful.
Following the Battle at Dragonstone, in which Queen Daenerys Targaryen's second dragon Rhaegal is killed, Tyrion and Varys argue in the throne room about whether Daenerys or Jon Snow, whose claim is better than hers, would be a better King, as Varys feels Daenerys has slowly started to become more ruthless and paranoid and believes Jon, who shows no signs of succumbing to the Targaryen madness could be the better person to rule. When Varys mentions that Jon is a man and therefore more appealing to the lords of Westeros. Tyrion counters that Joffrey was a man as well, implying that him being a man did not make him less of a bad ruler.
Joffrey's reign also proved to be one of the reasons why the hereditary monarchy was abolished, as Tyrion alludes to his reign as a case study, arguing to Sansa how cruel sons of kings could be.
Joffrey was an extremely ruthless, cruel, arrogant, sadistic, malicious, egotistical, remorseless and tyrannical ruler even by the standards of his times. He immensely enjoyed indulging in the agony of others and played barbarically vicious 'games' with them (for example, giving a man a choice between losing his hands or his tongue) and even joyously speculating serving Sansa Stark the head of her brother Robb at his wedding feast. However, he was also incompetent, unintelligent, naive, impulsive, petulant, extremely cowardly, and prone to rash outbursts of violence when angered, frightened or even mildly slighted. Much like earlier Targaryen kings, it was suspected that Joffrey's sociopathic behavior was a result of his incestuous bloodline (though his sister and brother both were of a kinder disposition) as well as being intensely sadistic, Joffrey was consumed by megalomaniacal delusions of grandeur, even though he was absurdly unskilled at ruling, making far more problems than he solved (though he was literally unable to recognize this and unapologetic for doing so).
Joffrey torments Ros and Daisy
He was convinced that he deserved praise and utter devotion from everyone around him because of his purported royal blood. Even though at the start of the War of the Five Kings most of the realm rose in rebellion against him, to the point that his faction essentially controlled only the Westerlands, the Crownlands, and a narrow strip of the southern Riverlands between them, Joffrey was convinced that he was the greatest king in the history of the Seven Kingdoms; proving just how arrogant and delusional he truly was. Added to what was an unstable personality to begin with, Cersei utterly spoiled and indulged Joffrey his entire life, resulting in him possessing a massive sense of entitlement as well as having no impulse and self-control due to getting whatever he wanted whenever he wanted it. Cersei also outright told him that the world could be exactly as he wanted it to be, fueling his narcissism to the extreme. Moreover, his father-figure King Robert was largely absent from his life and a terrible role-model, with his constant drinking and whoring (though Robert, at least, lamented on his deathbed that he hadn't been a good father).
He was deceitful, but showed even less tact than his mother. He was willing to take advantage of the trust that Sansa Stark initially placed in him, when she was blinded by fantasies of marrying her handsome prince. In general, however, Joffrey was usually too short-sighted to bother lying, often simply committing various atrocities in public, without concern for the consequences. Joffrey had precious little restraint emotionally, and would continuously resort to petty, impractical, illogical and childlike delights on violent degrees - for example, pouring wine over Tyrion's head, grinning at the brief duel between the Mountain and the Hound or sneering whilst scarring Mycah. In his deluded and pathetically emotionless fashion, he would cling to any sadistic urge that came to mind and never truly considered the long-term repercussions of his actions (not unlike his mother). His execution of Ned Stark was more than likely an impulsive decision for his own sole and personal enjoyment, than for the latter's supposed treason, and was a politically disastrous move that plunged the Seven Kingdoms into war.
Joffrey's view on his own family (immediate and alleged both) was extremely influenced by his own impulsiveness and self-absorption, and it is clear he does not truly hold his family in high regards. Despite her protectiveness of him and constant support for his actions for most of his life, he was entirely comfortable being misogynistic and condescending towards Cersei - insulting her status as a woman, and mocking Robert Baratheon's disloyalty to her. Joffrey taunted and belittled his true father Jaime Lannister as an unexceptional knight and for the loss of his hand. In addition, he apparently bullied and tormented Tommen and Myrcella their entire lives, never connecting with them the way, for example, the Starks did, and even considering Tommen weak for crying like any normal person. Even his grandfather Tywin Lannister was a person he held in contempt, being arrogant enough to furiously accuse Tywin of being a coward during Robert's Rebellion, in comparison to Robert Baratheon (who climactically killed Rhaegar Targaryen in combat and took the crown for himself). This particular scene is interesting, because Joffrey did almost exactly this: Tyrion and Tywin fought, bled and prevailed against the insurgent Stannis Baratheon, while Joffrey hid behind the walls of the Red Keep without even killing a single invader personally. Based on all this, Robert was probably the only relative that Joffrey held in any high regard - and Robert wasn't even Joffrey's father. The worst relationship that Joffrey had was with his uncle Tyrion, and on several occasions Tyrion stymied and accosted Joffrey for his sadistic, cruel and arrogant actions, and Joffrey at several points went to petty means of mocking and deriding him. This probably influenced Joffrey's urge to point at Tyrion mere moments before he died, as one final stab at his uncle for so much as standing in his way. The only person that seemed to be at all capable of controlling Joffrey was Tywin, who was able to intimidate Joffrey by mere presence. For instance, on the occasion where Joffrey accused Tywin of cowardice, Tywin simply sent the boy king to bed.
Joffrey was rather narcissistically obsessed with the hypocritical self-conception that he was a great warrior like King Robert, but displayed no martial skill. Joffrey never raised a weapon against an enemy combatant in his entire life, excluding Tyrion's birthday present to him, despite bragging melodramatically that he would personally cut down Robb Stark and Stannis Baratheon in battle (which he never came close to at any point in the war). Particularly, despite the fact that his faction was losing the war and bracing for a siege in King's Landing, Joffrey insisted that was the time for him to strike against the Stark forces as they were distracted by the Fall of Winterfell. However, Tyrion pointed out that his own city was on the verge of attack by Stannis's superior forces. His delusions were so extensive that during breakfast prior to his wedding - Joffrey noted, after receiving the Valyrian steel sword Widow's Wail, that using it would be like cutting off Ned Stark's head all over again - implying that he was the one who beheaded Lord Eddard, even though he simply ordered it and Ilyn Payne was the one who actually beheaded him. He also boasted, before the Battle of the Blackwater, that he would personally engage Stannis and kill him in combat, but never crossed the latter in combat throughout the entirety of the battle. Later on, to add stupidity to absurdity, he arrogantly claimed that he saved King's Landing and personally broke Stannis Baratheon at the Battle of the Blackwater, when it was in fact entirely down to his uncle and grandfather's military efforts, whereas Joffrey turned coward and fled the battle, and Stannis himself was not entirely broken because he could still pose a threat to his opponents in the war and his claim still stood to reason. His bloodlust was often overpowered by sheer cowardice. He rarely killed manually nor did he initiate a fight where his opponent stood a decent chance of besting him. Because of this he preferred tormenting animals and vulnerable people rather than fighting warriors and regularly went on hunts because of this (akin to Robert, but at least the latter was legitimately skilled at fighting men).
Aptly described as a vicious idiot king by his uncle Tyrion, Joffrey was not simply a ruthless, exceedingly cruel tyrant, but absurdly incompetent. While Robert was also not skilled at ruling (though not as bad as Joffrey), he was at least respected as a great warrior. Joffrey, in contrast, had no redeeming values whatsoever: his only claim to rule was that he was the son of Robert, the previous king. The great irony, of course, was that Joffrey was actually Jaime's bastard son and had no valid claim to the throne, but a shockingly large number of Joffrey's followers continued to blindly obey his crazed orders without question. After hearing the rumors of his true parentage, Joffrey unwisely ordered that all of Robert's bastards be killed to make sure nobody would legitimately challenge his claim, which backfired drastically and only served to heighten suspicions when the people saw it as Joffrey destroying the evidence of the truth. This is one of the several occasions where Joffrey overextends himself, the other being when he apparently sends Ser Mandon Moore to kill Tyrion during the Battle of the Blackwater, ignoring two factors: Tyrion was leading Joffrey's men against Stannis when Joffrey abandoned the battle; also the Kingsguard (at least, by reputation) only ever serve major members of the royal family, among whom Joffrey is supreme, and his hatred of Tyrion is far too well known. Thus, Joffrey's actions are never properly calculated, and he never anticipates repercussions from them.
Joffrey possesses all of the classical traits of narcissism, as he possesses an outrageous temper, is delusional about his self importance and superiority, and quick to torment and harm anyone who displeases him. He is known for his unstable mannerisms and affect when insulted, and has a very short fuse. He lacks remorse and empathy towards people, and has no ability or desire to expand it, and he is entirely apathetic and even cold towards his brother Tommen when the latter cries over the departure of his sister Myrcella - he even conceitedly claimed that princes shouldn't cry, despite the fact that he was witnessed crying himself. When confronted with this fact, he brushed it aside when Sansa pointed out that her brother Rickon cried himself, to which Joffrey claimed it was irrelevant because Rickon Stark wasn't a prince and Joffrey was, but he did not stop to speculate that this didn't make the slightest scrap of difference.
Once in a while, Joffrey does make a valid point, such as that the feudal levy system in the Seven Kingdoms is somewhat antiquated, or that his advisors should be worried about Daenerys Targaryen reportedly hatching three new dragons in Essos or that his grandfather Tywin Lannister bode his time before he finally aided the rebels during Robert's Rebellion. Joffrey was capable of logic but only if the solution was obvious and even then he got it wrong. After being poisoned at his wedding feast he (incorrectly) assumed that it was Tyrion's doing. Presumably, he came to this conclusion due to his uncle's constant chiding, insulting and threatening as well his use of physical punishment to discipline his wild, uncontrollable nephew or the fact that he was made cupbearer and the only person who held the opportunity to poison his wine (this makes no sense, however, as Joffrey made Tyrion his cupbearer on the spot to humiliate him further and he would have no chance to poison him). His hatred of his uncle might have also been a factor in this conclusion.
Generally, however, Joffrey only rarely made a valid insight as a means for the narrative to underscore that everyone else is overlooking something, i.e. "if someone as stupid as Joffrey realized this, it should have been obvious to everyone else." Even on those first two points Joffrey was quite short-sighted: he was concerned about Daenerys in the far east, despite the fact that Robb Stark was already leading major armies in rebellion in Westeros itself, and didn't consider that he should concentrate on the much more immediate threat (which is how Tyrion reacted to news of Daenerys). Similarly, while he vaguely said that having a standing royal army was better than using feudal levies, Cersei had to explain to him that his suggestion for how to make one was too impractical to work (if a royal army conscripts men from the North, they still wouldn't feel enthusiastic about attacking their fellow Northmen). Joffrey may also have been correct when he said that the Stark forces were distracted after the Fall of Winterfell, and that would have been the perfect opportunity to strike, but once again Tyrion had to remind him that his own city was preparing for a siege by Stannis Baratheon. Despite his lack of technical abilities and shortcomings in battle or combat, he was surprisingly knowledgeable on crossbows which he demonstrates to Margaery, knowing their make and models, effectiveness and was able to use them quite well, being able to shoot a bolt through the eye of a wall-mounted stuffed boar's head several meters away. His only direct kill with one, however, was Ros, a prostitute whom he restrained, and it was shown that he missed his shot multiple times due to the scattered arrows across the room (though these may have been him torturing her with the threat of death by missing intentionally, which would not be outside the realm of possibility for somebody like Joffrey).
Despite all these negative traits, however, Joffrey is shown to be capable of feeling very limited emotion. On Robert's deathbed, he is visibly shocked and saddened that his (legal) father may be dying and holds his hand, and (in the books) it is stated by various characters that Joffrey was very fond of Sandor Clegane despite his outwardly aloof manner towards him. He was probably more fond of the Hound because the man was a prolific and savage warrior, and had no complaints or restraints about killing, disregarding the fact that the Hound hated his even more savage brother, who was probably more aggressive and impractically violent than Joffrey himself, making him more interested in the Hound's combat prowess and aloofness (and Joffrey probably would have been terrified of the Mountain). He treated Margaery Tyrell much better than he did with Sansa Stark during their betrothal, although this is due to Margaery manipulating him by pretending to be intrigued by his playful sadism. On the other hand, he also acted charming and kind to Sansa, initially before turning her into his plaything to abuse and this one act was because his mother demanded him to do so, but he only became this way after her father confessed treason and her brother raised his armies against his claim.
A major point in the story is that Joffrey has absolutely no redeeming qualities other than that he is rather handsome. He is not simply cruel, but an utter imbecile, and dangerously incompetent when dealing with his power base in House Lannister. Even from a standpoint of ruthless practicality, Joffrey is an insane idiot who does more harm to House Lannister than good. Even so, people in the narrative who haven't met Joffrey, or only seen him in public events at King's Landing, have difficulty accepting that he is is a cruel lunatic. This goes against the simplistic world view that has been impressed on them by their own popular culture of romance songs and poetry. Sansa, in particular, became obsessed with Joffrey after encountering him simply because he was very handsome, even though she knew absolutely nothing about his personality.
Even into the first months of Joffrey's reign as king, many commoners assume that the "good King Joffrey" will soon restore peace and order and put an end to the war. At first, some can't really grasp that Joffrey himself started the war with a flippant outburst which killed Eddard Stark, and thus assume Eddard may have deserved it (given that no "sane" ruler would randomly execute a major lord without justification). Only gradually and grudgingly do people start to suspect that Joffrey might not be a fit king, but even then they try to rationalize this disconnect between Joffrey's beautiful appearance and horrible personality by latching onto the belief that assuredly Joffrey's uncle, the "demon-monkey" dwarf Tyrion, must be leading the attractive boy astray with bad counsel. Only after Joffrey has several meltdowns in open court, and brazenly commits several atrocities in full view of the public (i.e. needlessly starting the Riot of King's Landing by antagonizing starving refugees) do people start to accept that someone as attractive as Joffrey could truly be so evil.
* Only appears as a corpse.
Spoken by Joffrey
Spoken about Joffrey
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Joffrey is twelve years old when the story begins. He is described as a handsome young man, with the gold hair and green eyes of the Lannisters, and is tall and strong for his age.
Joffrey is not a POV character. His actions are narrated and interpreted via the POV of other characters, mainly Sansa and Tyrion.
Tyrion occasionally tries to teach him something of politics and learning, but he is uninterested in such matters, more interested in warring. He and Robert have a distant relationship, but his mother dotes upon him.
Throughout the books, Cersei is willfully blind to Joffrey's insane and homicidal behavior, no matter how ridiculous or cruel. Rather than recognize the monster that she has unleashed on the Seven Kingdoms by putting Joffrey on the throne, Cersei embraces the fantasy that he is a great king, or at worst "willful", and chides her younger son Tommen that he should try to be more like Joffrey.
Later books also retroactively reveal that Tommen has lived in terror of Joffrey his entire life. Joffrey killed and skinned at least one of Tommen's childhood pets, yet Cersei continued to dote on him. At one point Tommen even says that he used to "go away inside" mentally when Joffrey did certain things to him, though the exact extent of what he did (killing his pets or something far more sinister) has not been made clear.
At one point, Joffrey, as a child, was told that a kitchen cat was pregnant. Upon this discovery, he cut open the cat and took out the unborn kitten fetuses. He presented the fetuses to his "father", wanting to gain approval from him, but Robert was shocked and disgusted by this action, which caused him to hit Joffrey so hard that two of his baby teeth are knocked out; Stannis, who was dining with Robert at the time, later opines to Davos and Melisandre that he genuinely thought Robert had killed Joffrey. Cersei brushes off Joffrey's actions as some nonsense with a cat, and threatens to kill Robert in his sleep if he ever harms Joffrey again.
The reason for Joffrey's sociopathic, borderline-insane behavior is suspected to be due to his incestuous parentage, much like some of the earlier Targaryen kings. However, Joffrey also had a distant relationship with his "father" Robert, his mother spoiled him, and he lacked any good role models throughout his childhood, which heavily contributed to his mental instability. From a strict technical standpoint, Joffrey is not "insane" in the sense that Aerys was, in that he didn't suffer from hallucinations. Otherwise, Joffrey is a megalomaniacal sociopath by any measure.
In the second book, A Clash of Kings, Joffrey at several points shoots and kills peasants with his crossbow, for largely imagined insults. When crowds of refugees from the war he started come to the castle gates to beg for bread, he picks them off with his crossbow from the battlements, for daring to consider him "a baker." He then brags about doing this in open court, before having Sansa stripped and beaten in front of everyone. When Sansa asks if he killed any of the peasants, Joffrey matter-of-factly states that of course he did, he was trying to kill them. He also expresses fondness for making men fight to the death and giving "justice" to criminals. In the book, however, it is not Joffrey who orders the massacre of Robert's bastards, but Cersei. The books make no mention of Joffrey doubting that Robert was his father, while in the television series, it is Joffrey who gives the order, implying that basically, Joffrey knows (or at least suspects) that Robert wasn't really his father, and he is doing his best to destroy the evidence.
After his death, with the exception of his mother, Joffrey is not particularly mourned by anyone; there are no public displays of grief at his passing, and even his real father openly professes that Joffrey was no more to him that a "squirt of seed" and deserved to die. Stannis is quite content to hear about Joffrey's death, recalling how he once cut a pregnant cat open; he comments "Dwarf or leech, this killer served the kingdom well."
Although it has not been proved conclusively, it is highly likely that Joffrey is the one who sent the catspaw assassin to kill Bran; Jaime and Tyrion reach that conclusion independently, based on circumstantial evidence.
In the books, Joffrey is the fourth (and the last, by the point the books reached) of the titular leaders in the War of the Five Kings to die, following Robb.
In the books, Joffrey dies after the other two "usurpers" Balon and Robb, against whom Stannis and Melisandre performed the leech ritual. Similarly to the deaths of Balon and Robb, it seems that Joffrey's death did not get Stannis even one step closer to the Iron Throne. However, since Stannis is still alive in the books, it can be argued that Joffrey's death may assist him indirectly: it has triggered a chain of events that resulted in Tywin's death - and from that point began the gradual decline of House Lannister, mainly due to Cersei's total incompetence as a ruler. Considering how far the show strayed from the books (in respect of the plotlines of Sansa, Dorne and more), it is not impossible that Stannis will survive the Battle of Winterfell, and may take advantage of the unstable state of affairs at King's Landing.
Fans sometimes derisively assume that "Joffrey Baratheon" should really be called "Joffrey Lannister", because of his status as the bastard offspring of the incestuous relationship between Cersei and Jaime, and not the son of King Robert Baratheon at all. This is actually in error, as according to the customs of bastardy, Joffrey doesn't even have the right to use the surname "Lannister." As Jaime's bastard son, given birth to by a woman from the Westerlands (Cersei), Joffrey would have to use the bastard surname for the Westerlands: "Joffrey Hill." There's also the possibility that he might be called "Joffrey Waters" given that both Jaime and Cersei had been living in the Crownlands for many years, and Joffrey lived his whole life there. All of this, of course, would only happen if Jaime were to openly acknowledge Joffrey as his son, which is an impossibility given the disastrous political fallout this would create. Furthermore, as the product of not merely bastardy, but incest, the Faith of the Seven would want to outright kill Joffrey as an abomination before the gods if his actual parentage were ever revealed. Therefore from a strict legal standpoint, given that Jaime will never acknowledge his children with Cersei, Joffrey has no right to any surname, and should properly just be called "Joffrey" as if he were a lowborn commoner.
Joffrey is stated to be 17 years old in the TV series at the time of the Battle of the Blackwater, as stated in "The Prince of Winterfell." Most of the younger characters in the TV series were aged-up by about two years compared to their book counterparts (i.e. Sansa states that she is 13 years old in the first episode of Season 1, but is 11 in the first novel). Making Joffrey 17 years old in the TV series drastically increases his age relative to the other characters, however, as he is stated to be only 13 years old during the Battle of the Blackwater in the novels (the Tournament he holds in the beginning of book/Season 2 is to celebrate his nameday). This would make TV-Joffrey 16 years old in Season 1, which is stated to be 17 years after Robert and Cersei were married at the end of Robert's Rebellion (which was increased from 15 years ago in the TV series). Cersei also states that she became pregnant with a son by Robert at the very beginning of her marriage who died in infancy. Assuming that Cersei's first son died even a few days after birth, this requires a nine month pregnancy, plus another nine month pregnancy before Joffrey was born (assuming she became pregnant quite soon after her first son died), meaning Joffrey could have been born no earlier than sixteen and a half years before the beginning of the narrative - drastically increasing Joffrey's age to sixteen years old in Season 1 strains the plausibility of this timetable, and drastically increasing his age by four years instead of two like the other characters may have been a dialogue error in "The Prince of Winterfell", in order to make a forced comparison between Joffrey and how Jaime was such a skilled warrior at seventeen that he became the youngest man ever to join the Kingsguard. Another possibility is that Tyrion meant that Joffrey was almost 17 and that he was actually 16 during Season 2.
The Iron Throne, beneath the seven-pointed star of the Faith of the Seven commissioned by King Joffrey.
The Iron Throne was the throne upon which the King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men sat, located in the Great Hall of the Red Keep in the city of King's Landing. Besides the monarchs themselves, only their Hand could sit on the Iron Throne. The Iron Throne was also a metonym, along with "the crown," referring to the monarchy that rules the Seven Kingdoms and the authority of the monarchy (e.g. "rebellion against the Iron Throne").
Swords from the defeated enemies at the Last Storm are transported to the Aegonfort to be used in the construction of Iron Throne.
The Iron Throne was forged at the order of Aegon the Conqueror, the first of the Targaryen Kings, who conquered six of the seven independent kingdoms of Westeros and unified them under his rule - the seventh kingdom of Dorne was later joined through a marriage alliance. The throne was allegedly forged from the 1,000 swords that had been surrendered to Aegon in the War of Conquest by the lords who had offered their fealty, though the actual number of the swords in 300 AC is fewer than two hundred. These were subsequently melted down by the fiery breath of Aegon's dragon, Balerion the Black Dread, then beaten and bent into a throne of imposing appearance, asymmetrical and surrounded by swords protruding from the ground, the steps being decorated with twisted steel. At some point during or prior to the reign of Aerys II Targaryen, many of the swords that made up the Iron Throne were removed and the throne was given a safer and more symmetrical design.
The Iron Throne as it appeared during the reign of Viserys I Targaryen.
At the end of Robert's Rebellion, during the Sack of King's Landing, as the Lannister army overran the city outside of the Red Keep, King Aerys II Targaryen - the Mad King - refused to surrender, and secretly ordered the city to be burned to the ground with hidden caches of wildfire. To prevent this, his own Kingsguard Ser Jaime Lannister killed the Mad King in front of the Iron Throne itself. Greatly disturbed at having killed the king he had taken the most sacred oaths to defend, Jaime then sat down on the Iron Throne and gave no thought to the carnage going on outside. Hours later, the main rebel army arrived in the city, and Ned Stark came to the throne room, where he found Jaime sitting on the throne. Years later, Jaime's sister Cersei chided Eddard that he could have tried to seize the throne then and there, instead of letting Robert take it, but he did nothing. Stark never knew why Jaime really killed King Aerys, and seeing him seated on the Iron Throne like that (apparently, out of arrogance) gave Eddard the incorrect belief that Jaime hoped to seize the throne himself some day.
Septa Mordane quizzes Sansa Stark on her history lessons while walking through the throne room, asking her who built the Iron Throne. Sansa correctly answers that it was Aegon the Conqueror.
Viserys tells Doreah that the Iron Throne was made of the swords of the vanquished.
Because the king is out hunting, Eddard Stark sits on the Iron Throne while listening to royal petitioners, in his capacity as Hand of the King. He hears a report from a peasant refugee that Ser Gregor Clegane has been raiding villages in the Riverlands.
Following the death of King Robert Baratheon, his alleged son Joffrey Baratheon takes his place on the Iron Throne.
Far away on the eastern continent in Vaes Dothrak, Daenerys Targaryen urges her husband Khal Drogo to help her win back the Iron Throne that her own father once sat upon, for her and Drogo's unborn son that she carries inside her. At first, Drogo is not very interested: Westeros is very far away, across the ocean, and to the Dothraki it seems just like a literal chair (without all of the connotations of authority over the Seven Kingdoms associated with it). After a failed assassination attempt on Daenerys by one of Robert's agents, however, Drogo is deeply offended, and vows to attack Westeros and take the Iron Throne for Daenerys and their son, Rhaego.
Joffrey continues to jauntily sit on the Iron Throne as the War of the Five Kings tears apart the realm. He gets up from the throne to menace the captive Sansa Stark with a crossbow, idly considering shooting her, before relenting that his mother insists she remain alive - so he simply orders his Kingsguard to beat and strip her in front of the entire court. Meanwhile, at Dragonstone Island to the east, Robert's younger brother Stannis Baratheon declares that the Iron Throne is his by right, and all who deny that are his foes.
During the Battle of the Blackwater, just as the battle seems to be turning against the city's defenders, Cersei Lannister goes to the throne room to sit on the Iron Throne herself, while holding her younger son Tommen sitting on her lap. Together they await what she fears will be their end, and gets ready to give essence of nightshade to Tommen and herself to painlessly kill them both - as if Stannis is victorious he will have them both tortured to death. In the nick of time, however, her father Tywin enters the throne room along with Ser Loras Tyrell: the main Lannister army along with reinforcements from House Tyrell arrived at the last moment and repulsed Stannis's assault, winning the battle.
Olenna Tyrell, in typical fashion, has a low opinion of the throne itself, blithely referring to it as "that ugly iron chair."
Petyr Baelish remarks to Varys that the Iron Throne doesn't literally have thousands of swords in it, he has counted and the real number is under two hundred. He says that this is another inflated legend, part of the pageantry and propaganda that supports kings and dynasties but which is, in fact, illusory.
Following King Joffrey Baratheon's assassination with poison at his own wedding, his younger brother Tommen Baratheon is crowned as the new king in a ceremony while sitting on the Iron Throne. Because Tommen is still underage, however, his grandfather Tywin Lannister, the Hand of the King and Protector of the Realm, later sits on the Iron Throne while overseeing the court trial of Tyrion Lannister for the (false) charge of poisoning Joffrey.
After a new alliance is formed between the crown and the Faith Militant, King Tommen Baratheon dismisses his uncle, Jaime Lannister, from the Kingsguard while sitting on the Iron Throne for marching against the Faith with the Tyrell army. Later in court, King Tommen, from atop the Iron Throne, outlaws trial by combat and announces the date of Cersei and Loras' trials. After the Great Sept of Baelor is destroyed and the main Tyrell line and the Sparrows are wiped out, King Tommen commits suicide. Without a clear line of succession and anyone to oppose her, Cersei is crowned Queen of the Seven Kingdoms by Qyburn before the court and sits on the Iron Throne.
Cersei sits on the Iron Throne when she and Jaime negotiate an alliance with Euron Greyjoy, the new self-proclaimed King of the Iron Islands. Later, Euron leads his captives Yara Greyjoy, Ellaria Sand, and Tyene Sand into the court of Queen Cersei, who sits on the Iron Throne. Cersei alludes to the Iron Throne's original association when she incredulously declares, "I sit on her father's throne!" in reference to the very remote possibility of peace with Daenerys Targaryen.
Bran Stark and Samwell Tarly learn that Jon Snow, the alleged bastard of Eddard Stark, is actually the lawful son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark, born as Aegon Targaryen, As such, he is the rightful heir to the Iron Throne.
Euron Greyjoy presents Harry Strickland, the captain of the Golden Company, before Cersei, who sits atop the Iron Throne.
When she learns the truth of Jon's parentage, Daenerys is upset to realize Jon is the rightful heir to the Iron Throne, having spent years believing it was her birthright and working toward it. Jon tells Daenerys he doesn't want it and will refuse if anybody tries to press his claim.
The Iron Throne is melted by Drogon.
After setting fire to most of King's Landing and its people, Daenerys enters the throne room and touches the Iron Throne, after years of seeking to claim it. Jon tries to urge her off her path of destruction. Daenerys is resolved, sincerely believing she is justified in her actions and is certain this is the way they build a better world, by destroying the old one and those loyal to it. Jon pleads with her to be merciful to the people but Daenerys is committed to her way of achieving her vision of a better world. To save Westeros and its people, Jon assassinates Daenerys and weeps as he holds her body in his arms. Following this, Drogon arrives and directs his flames not at Jon, but the Throne, and melts it down. He bellows in grief as he flies away with Daenerys's body. All that remains of the Iron Throne is a mound of melted debris.
George R.R. Martin expressed in his blog that the appearance of the Iron Throne in Game of Thrones isn't what the Iron Throne looks like in the world of the A Song of Ice and Fire novels.
In the TV series, the Iron Throne is the size of a very large chair, is reasonably symmetrical, and Littlefinger remarks in Season 3's "The Climb" that it doesn't literally contain thousands of swords, he has counted and there are under two hundred.
Closeup of Mark Simonetti's artwork depicting the Iron Throne, singled out by Martin as closely representing the imposing size and appearance of the throne in the books (click to expand).
Artwork by Mark Simonetti of the throne room in the books, which is on the scale of St. Peter's basilica (click to expand).
Martin explained that the physical proportions of the Iron Throne in the books, as well as the throne room it is set in, are simply unfilmable due to their massive size. The throne room in the books is the size of St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican, and the Iron Throne itself towers over forty feet in height. The book version of the Iron Throne actually does contain a thousand swords, taken from Aegon the Conqueror's fallen enemies, and the visual symbol of subsequent Targaryen kings who sat atop that many swords of vanquished foes was a truly awesome sight to behold. Even the actual seat where the king sits is located over twenty feet off of the ground, and needs to be reached by an entire flight of stairs.
The Iron Throne is so large that it is physically impossible to move it. Aegon I eventually decided to raze the boomtown that had grown up around the site of his army's landing camp, a ramshackle town of wood and earth called "The Aegonfort", so that he could start over from scratch and construct a more permanent new capital city, King's Landing. The Red Keep itself and the throne room had to be built around the preexisting Iron Throne. The construction took many years and would continue long after his death, so in the meantime, he relocated the royal court to his ancestral castle on Dragonstone. It was impossible to move the Iron Throne, however: when Aegon I died his son and successor Aenys had to travel to the unfinished construction site of King's Landing to be crowned on the Iron Throne, before then moving back to Dragonstone. This is also why no one ever tried to steal the Iron Throne and take it elsewhere during civil wars, i.e. when one side or the other seized the capital during the Dance of the Dragons, or during Robert's Rebellion, no attempt was made by the defenders to sneak the throne out of the capital along with other royal emblems such as the king's crown.
Moreover, Martin made the point that the Iron Throne in the books was hammered together by blacksmiths, not sculptors and artisans, so it does not fit together neatly: rather, it is a sprawling and twisting asymmetrical stack of swords welded together into a vague throne-shape and towering into the air. Aegon the Conqueror did "build" the Iron Throne in that he commissioned it, and more specifically in that he used the fire of his dragon Balerion to melt down the swords and make them malleable, after which the blacksmiths would take them and add them to the growing construct.
Martin was nonetheless entirely sympathetic to the practical necessities faced by the TV production team: the throne room as he envisioned it may be the size of St. Peter's Basilica, but the TV series already films in the largest studio set in all of Europe, the Paint Hall in Belfast. He acknowledged that the book version of the Iron Throne is so massive it would have difficulty fitting in any set, and even if it did, it might visually detract from the drama for the king to be holding conversations with people on the ground a full forty feet away from him. Martin also stated that he actually very much enjoys the design used for the Iron Throne in the TV series - it simply would have been physically impossible to replicate the towering edifice he described in the books.
In 2013, Martin pointed out a painting by Marc Simonetti (see at right) as coming closer than any previous artwork to what the Iron Throne and the throne room look like as Martin envisions them in the books.
In 2014, a small replica of the TV series's Iron Throne was given to Elizabeth II, Queen of the United Kingdom, on a visit to Paint Hall. The Queen declined an invitation to sit upon the actual Iron Throne prop, although she was photographed inspecting it and other props from the series. As David Benioff later explained, she did not sit on the Iron Throne prop because "Apparently the Queen of England is not allowed to sit on a foreign throne - This is an esoteric rule we didn't know about until that moment." D.B. Weiss agreed that this seemed odd because the prop is a fictional throne for a fictional kingdom.
A Season 4 blooper reel revealed that during the trial scene in "The Laws of Gods and Men", Charles Dance (Tywin) gripped the pommel of one of the swords making up the Iron Throne so hard (because Tywin is angry) that it accidentally snapped off - he then looked down at it in his grip and swore, embarrassed that he had just broken the Iron Throne prop.
For House of the Dragon, the throne was redesigned to have a more menacing appearance and to be more true to George R.R. Martin's original vision. Designed by Jim Clay, the new throne stands 2 feet taller than the one in Game of Thrones and is surrounded by approximately 2,000 swords, variously bent, melted, and protruding.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Iron Throne is reportedly uncomfortable to sit upon due to the blades that radiate out from it, occasionally cutting the incumbent. The moral lesson Aegon intended for his heirs was that no ruler should ever sit upon the throne carelessly, just as they must not rule carelessly. The Iron Throne specifically contains the swords of those Aegon defeated in battle, but not of those who had surrendered honorably rather than give battle. As such, no swords from the North or the Vale of Arryn were included in the Iron Throne thanks to Torrhen Stark and Sharra Arryn.
King Aerys II Targaryen's increasing insanity over the years led him to absentmindedly sit upon the throne with his full weight, frequently cutting and injuring himself. Ultimately he cut and scraped himself so much upon the Iron Throne that his personal enemies derisively referred to him as "King Scab", besides of his more common epithet, "the Mad King". This was seen by some as a sign of his unworthiness to rule.
At the end of Robert's Rebellion, King Aerys was slain by Jaime Lannister at the foot of the Iron Throne itself. Jaime proceeded to wait out the rest of the sack of the city by Lannister soldiers, and waited in the throne room for the late arrival of Eddard Stark and the main rebel army. Eddard's most powerful memory of the event was arriving in the throne room to find Jaime sitting on the Iron Throne, his sword at his side still covered in Aerys' blood, with the Mad King's corpse lying in a pool of his own blood in front of the throne. On seeing Eddard, Jaime got off the Iron Throne, joking that he was just keeping it warm for Robert.
King's Landing is the capital, and largest city, of the Six Kingdoms. Located on the east coast of Westeros in the Crownlands, just north of where the Blackwater Rush flows into Blackwater Bay and overlooking Blackwater Bay, King's Landing is the site of the Iron Throne and the Red Keep, the seat of the King of the Andals and the First Men (hence the name). It enjoys a warm climate and life there is luxurious for those that can afford it, although it is not without its slums such as Flea Bottom. The city is overpopulated and dangerous at the best of times, despite being policed by the City Watch.
King's Landing was founded by King Aegon I Targaryen, King of the Andals and the First Men. He established a small wooden fort atop the hill, named the Aegonfort in his honor, where his ships first landed from Dragonstone, and used this as a base for his campaign to conquer the continent. Having achieved his goal, he established the new capital on the site of his original fort. The city expanded rapidly under his descendants. By the time of Robert's Rebellion, the city had a population of approximately half a million people.
King's Landing has suffered occasional attacks during its existence, most notably during the civil war known as Robert's Rebellion, when Lord Tywin Lannister betrayed King Aerys II Targaryen and ordered his army to brutally sack the city before turning it over to Robert Baratheon as a sign of fealty.
During the War of the Five Kings, the problems in King's Landing have multiplied. The worst of these are the food shortages exacerbated by an influx of refugees into the city seeking the protection of the city walls from the war, this even led to a riot at one point early into the war during which the High Septon, and Aron Santagar perished, along with many other citizens. Despite its opulence and status as the capital, King's Landing is often referred to in a derisive manner by outsiders, likely due to corruption and poor standards of living such as water filtration. A recurring theme is the stench of human waste; the crowded population and sea breeze means such smells are particularly pungent.
Near the end of her war, Daenerys Targaryen, Drogon, and Daenerys's forces launched an attack on King's Landing. The defending army surrendered, but Daenerys proceeded to raze the city with Drogon, collapsing parts of the Red Keep and indiscriminately killing civilians and soldiers alike.
Following the assassination of Daenerys Targaryen and the election of Bran Stark as the new king, Tyrion Lannister is named Hand of the King once again and leads the effort to rebuild the city with the new Small Council. The new Hand has also pledged to make building a new water filtration system a top priority.
The Red Keep is the seat of the ruler of the Seven Kingdoms. It is located on the easternmost side of the city, overlooking Blackwater Bay and the Narrow Sea. After Daenerys invaded King's Landing, the Red Keep was heavily damaged and is in the process of rebuilding.
The Great Sept of Baelor (on Visenya's Hill) seen from the west of King's Landing, with the Red Keep (on Aegon's High Hill) in the distance at the right.
The Great Sept of Baelor was the center of the Faith of the Seven, the dominant religion in seven of the nine constituent regions of the realm, and the seat and residence of the High Septon, the topmost official within the Faith.
Located in the western side of the city, this sept was named after King Baelor I Targaryen. It was destroyed on the orders of Cersei Lannister, using wildfire following Ser Loras Tyrell's trial, though the explosion also wiped out half the city surrounding the hill for a mile.
The Guildhall of the Alchemists is the headquarters of the Alchemists' Guild, an ancient order of men known as "pyromancers". It is an underground structure located beneath Rhaenys's Hill.
The Guildhall of the Alchemists is presumably in ruin along with the rest of King's Landing, following the Battle of King's Landing.
Flea Bottom is the largest slum district in the city. Davos Seaworth and Armeca hail from Flea Bottom.
After escaping the Red Keep, Arya Stark hides in Flea Bottom. Margaery Tyrell visits an orphanage in the slum to give gifts as a goodwill gesture of herself as queen, and of House Tyrell as the saviors of King's Landing (in ending the capital's food shortages and combining the strength of the Reach to win the Battle of the Blackwater). It is also later said that Margaery did this to carry on her charitable work as she had previously done in Highgarden.
Littlefinger's brothel is a high-end establishment whose prostitutes cater to richest classes in the city. It has since been attacked and destroyed by the newly reinstated Faith Militant under leadership from the High Sparrow.
King's Landing is the largest city in Westeros, with a population of 500,000.
Production Designer Gemma Jackson described the conception of the overall look for King's Landing by saying that, "When I was thinking about King's Landing, the whole red aspect of it, that immediately made me think of Rajasthan", which is the northwest region of India.
The exterior shots of King's Landing in Season 1 were filmed in Malta. In Season 2, new filming locations for King's Landing were found in Croatia, specifically in the seaside castle-town of Dubrovnik.
​King's Landing has appeared in all but seven episodes of Game of Thrones so far. The seven exceptions are Season 1's "The Kingsroad", Season 3's "The Rains of Castamere", Season 4's "The Watchers on the Wall", Season 5's "Kill the Boy" and "The Dance of Dragons", and Season 6's "The Door" and "Battle of the Bastards".
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, King's Landing is the largest city in Westeros, with a population of roughly half a million. It is built around three tall hills: Visenya's Hill, Rhaenys's Hill and Aegon's Hill. The Red Keep is the primary fortress and redoubt of the city, located atop Aegon's Hill behind several inner walls.
King's Landing was rapidly constructed within the first century of rule by the Targaryen dynasty. This rapid expansion didn't keep pace with organized "city-planning", resulting in numerous slums forming such as the district known as Flea Bottom. Many of these slum districts are poorly organized, ugly, and filthy because their placement wasn't thought out during the rush to slap down new buildings. In contrast, the second largest city in Westeros, Oldtown in the Reach, is thousands of years old, but grew only in incremental steps which were well planned out beforehand, resulting in it being a much better organized and beautiful city without the squalid slums of King's Landing, while being only slightly smaller than the capital itself.
Aegon I fortified his initial landing point at the northern shore of the mouth of the Blackwater River, a strategically very defensible position protected to the east and south by water, and surrounded by open plains which would expose any attacking army long before it arrived. After the conquest, Aegon ruled for some time at the crude boomtown which sprang up there, known as Aegonfort. However, it remained a ramshackle pile of wood and earth, so after some time he moved his seat back to Dragonstone, until such time as a proper new capital city could be built in the former location of Aegonfort. He had Aegonfort razed, while planning and construction of King's Landing continued. By the time Aegon I died, however, only the foundations of the city and tunnels of the future Red Keep were finished (thus apparently Aegon continued to rule from Dragonstone for the rest of his life, though he always intended to move the royal seat back to the mainland some day). The city was only finished during the reign of Aegon's second son, Maegor the Cruel. The Iron Throne itself, however, was not taken to Dragonstone, because it was too big to move - keeping in mind that the Iron Throne in the books is a massive 30 foot tall construct literally made out of thousands of swords.
In the TV series, King's Landing is presented as having a warm, Mediterranean or even a sub-tropical climate, and outdoor scenes set in King's Landing are filmed in Mediterranean locations such as Malta and Croatia. Author George R.R. Martin has noted this isn't quite the same as in the books, where it has more of a temperate climate, saying: "King's Landing, that's the capital, is not quite so tropical - in the books it's more like medieval Paris or London." According to the production team in Season 1 behind-the-scenes featurettes, the change in climate was made because they wanted to emphasize how much more lush and abundant King's Landing is compared to Winterfell. It's quite possible that the TV city's climate is far less comfortable in winter.
The map of King's Landing that Tyrion reads in "The Prince of Winterfell", showing the River Gate and southeastern portions of the city (click to expand).
The city map from "The Prince of Winterfell" - with names of major locations added to it (click to expand).
King's Landing is located on the north bank of the mouth of the Blackwater Rush, and its outline is roughly shaped like a diamond, with a point in each cardinal direction (north, south, east, west). This is because the river mouth flows from southwest to northeast. Many maps simply tilt the viewing angle so that the river is drawn flowing straight across the bottom, with the southeast side of the city at the bottom and the northwest side at the top, and the overall city appears to have a simple square shape.
The city was built around three large hills, named for Aegon Targaryen and his sisters, who founded the city. The largest is Aegon's High Hill, located on the eastern corner, on which the Red Keep was built. Visenya's Hill is in the southern corner, and Rhaenys's Hill is in the northern corner (there is no hill in the western corner). King's Landing has seven gates, one in the middle of each of the four walls, and at three of the four corners (the eastern corner at Aegon's High Hill has no gate, because it is located directly on the coast, where the river meets the bay). The names of the gates are the River Gate (commonly known as the "Mud Gate," southeast wall), the King's Gate (south corner), the Lion Gate (southwest wall), the Gates of the Gods (west corner), the Old gate (northwest wall), the Dragon Gate (north corner), and the Iron Gate (northeast wall).
The Kingsroad begins at Storm's End to the south, and after passing over the Blackwater river, it enters the city through the River Gate in the southeast wall, eventually exiting the city through the Gate of the Gods in the western corner (though it soon curves north to head to Winterfell and Castle Black). The Goldroad exits through the Lion Gate on the southwestern wall, heading to Casterly Rock. The Roseroad, which leads to Highgarden, doesn't directly connect to King's Landing, but instead merges with the King's Road just a few miles south of the crossing over the Blackwater. The only other major road out of the city is the Rosby Road, which exits from the Iron Gate on the northeast side, leading to the towns of Rosby and later Duskendale, the Crownlands' secondary port. The Tourney of the Hand (seen in Season 1) was held on fair grounds outside of the King's Gate.
The city is dominated by two primary roads, each of them straight, which intersect in the central plaza of the city. One runs north and south to connect Rhaenys's Hill and Visenya's Hill, and is therefore known as the Street of Sisters. The southern end terminates at the Great Sept of Baelor at the top of Visenya's Hill, while the northern end terminates at the now-abandoned Dragonpit, atop Rhaenys's Hill. The other road runs from Aegon's High Hill in the east to the western corner of the city. While the central plaza is square-shaped, the four road entrances are in each of the corners, not in the middle of the sides.
The Kingsroad actually doesn't directly run to the Red Keep. After entering through the River Gate in the middle of the southeastern wall, it continues straight north through the city until it meets with the road from Aegon's High Hill, just east of the central plaza, joining it at a 45 degree angle (the portion of the Kingsroad running south of this juncture down to the river is nicknamed the "Muddy Way"). Only the portion of the east-west road located west of this juncture is considered to be part of the Kingsroad, running all the way to the Gate of the Gods at the western corner of the city. No name has yet been provided for the stretch of the same road which extends east from the point where it joins with the Kingsroad up to Aegon's High Hill. Royal family members and courtiers visiting the Great Sept of Baelor (as they frequently do in the TV series) would travel west on the road away from Aegon's High Hill, past the point where it merges with the Kingsroad, then into the central plaza, then turn left to travel south along the Street of Sisters. Also, there is another major square along the Kingsroad halfway between the central plaza and the Gate of the Gods, known as Cobbler's Square (while the western corner is the only one that doesn't have a hill, Cobber's Square is roughly where one would be if there was an equal hill in every corner).
A few other major roads and districts have been mentioned. The River Row runs along the inside of the southeastern wall, near the Blackwater river. A fishmarket actually extends outside of the city walls up to the river bank: being located outside of the walls, it was heavily damaged during Stannis Baratheon's siege of the city. The River Gate is located in the middle of this southeastern wall, and as the Kingsroad passes through this gate is crosses River Row, forming a plaza known as Fishmonger's Square. River Row's eastern end does not directly connect to the Red Keep, because Aegon's High Hill is too steep on its southern side. Someone in the Red Keep who wanted to travel to the River Gate wouldn't want to have to ride all the way down in a straight line to where it meets the Kingsroad near the central plaza. Therefore a shortcut exists known as "The Hook", beginning halfway up the Muddy Way and curving off east in a semicircle to reach the entrance to the Red Keep on the less steep western side of Aegon's High Hill. The Riot of King's Landing originated on the Hook, when after seeing off Myrcella at the docks, Joffrey and his royal party were traveling back up this street to the Red Keep (though the riot subsequently spread throughout the city).
The Street of Steel begins at the western corner of Fishmonger square, then curves up in a semicircle east-to-west over the outer shoulder of Visenya's Hill, slightly west of the Great Sept of Baelor at the top. It meets with the Kingsroad slightly west of the main plaza. The Street of Steel is a relatively well-to-do neighborhood where blacksmiths produce armor and swords to sell to knights. Tobho Mott's smithy, where Gendry was an apprentice, is located on the Street of Steel. The Guildhall of the Alchemists, meanwhile, is located on the Street of Sisters at the foot of Visenya's Hill, near the central plaza.
One other major road that runs through the city is the Rosby Road itself, which after entering through the Iron Gate (on the northeast side of the city) runs in a straight line southwest until it terminates at the central plaza - forming a 45 degree angle with the Street of Sisters.
The worst of King's Landing's slum districts, Flea Bottom, is located at the eastern base of Rhaenys's Hill, extending east to the Rosby Road. Also known as "the Bottom", it is physically located at the bottom of the valley between Rhaenys's Hill and Aegon's High Hill. The slum does not extend all the way up the eastern side of Rhaenys's Hill, but proceeding downwards from the summit, it begins below the Street of Flour, which is the location of many bakeries. When Arya is hiding in Flea Bottom after her father's arrest, she mentions having to walk down from the Street of Flour to enter Flea Bottom. In the TV series, the Street of Flour is seen in "Baelor" when Arya attempts to sell the meat from a pigeon she caught to a baker in exchange for a pie.
In Season 3's "Mhysa", Gendry asks where Davos lived in Flea Bottom, by asking how far he lived below the Street of Flour. Apparently the alleys lower down the hill were poorer, because all of the human waste poured into the streets flowed downhill. Davos explains that he came from the worst part of the slum, Gin Alley, which is located so far down Rhaenys's Hill that it is in the valley between it and Aegon's High Hill, so that all of the shit from the Red Keep poured out of sewage pipes at the bottom of the hill, then down Tanner's Row and past his front door. In Season 4, Karl Tanner says that he used to be a professional cutthroat and dagger-for-hire in the most dangerous part of Flea Bottom, Gin Alley. While Flea Bottom is very dangerous, no specific mention of a street named "Gin Alley" has been made so far in the books.
The Street of Silk is one of the major red light districts in King's Landing, if not the major one. It is located on the western side of Rhaenys's Hill, opposite Flea Bottom on the eastern side, and relatively close to the Old Gate. Many brothels are located here, some of variable quality, but several which are quite upscale and which cater to the wealthy nobility. In the books, the brothel here that features in the narrative is owned and run by Chataya, a woman from the Summer Islands. Robert's bastard baby girl Barra was born to one of Chataya's prostitutes (named Mhaegen in the TV series). Bronn also celebrated his new knighthood at Chataya's, and Oberyn Martell was also a customer. In the TV series, most of these events were condensed so that the brothel is actually owned by Littlefinger (who does own several other brothels in the books); it therefore stands to reason that in the TV continuity, Littlefinger's brothel is also located on the Street of Silk, on the northwest side of the city.
The Execution of Eddard Stark is a pivotal event in the developing conflict caused by the death of Robert Baratheon, paving the way for its transformation into a full-fledged civil war.
During his tenure as Hand of the King to King Robert Baratheon, Eddard Stark discovers that Jaime is the father of Cersei's children. While Robert is hunting, Ned confronts Cersei, unwisely revealing that he knows her secret and giving her a chance to flee King's Landing with her children before he tells Robert the truth. Cersei is unfazed since she has already arranged Robert's death by instructing her cousin Lancel to give him too much wine during his hunt.
Robert is gravely injured by a boar during a hunt and, before passing away, names Joffrey as his successor. He appoints Ned to temporarily hold the throne until Joffrey is mature enough to handle the responsibility. Ned chooses not to disclose the truth to Robert, but instead informs Robert's younger brother and rightful heir, Stannis Baratheon. In the meantime, Cersei and Joffrey take the throne. With assistance from Janos Slynt and Littlefinger, Ned confronts Cersei, attempting to arrest her and her children. However, Slynt and Littlefinger have been swayed by the Lannisters, betraying Ned and leading to the massacre of his men and his imprisonment.
While in the dungeons, Ned is visited by Varys, who informs him that his son, Robb Stark, has called all of House Stark's banners to march on King's Landing and free him, and though Arya has escaped, Sansa is still the Lannisters' hostage. However, Varys also claims that Cersei has promised that if Ned confesses to his "treason" and orders Robb to stand down, he will be spared and sent to the Night's Watch; Ned initially refuses to sully his honor by making a such false confession, but reluctantly changes his mind after Varys points out that Sansa's life is at stake.
After agreeing to Cersei's terms, Ned is taken to the yard before the Great Sept of Baelor to confess his treason publicly. Present for the confession are Joffrey, Cersei, Sansa, Littlefinger, Varys, Pycelle, the High Septon, several Kingsguard and the King's Justice, Ser Ilyn Payne. Unbeknownst to all of them, save Ned, Arya is also present, standing on the pedestal of the statue of Baelor the Blessed. Passing Yoren in the crowd, Ned can say a single word to him, "Baelor," prompting Yoren to seize Arya a few minutes later and keep her from seeing her father's execution.
Ned is taken by two Gold Cloaks before the King and his entourage while the people of the city gathered yell insults at him. Aware of his daughter's pleas, he relents and gives the false confession the Queen demanded: confessing his plot to murder Joffrey and seize the Throne for himself.
Pycelle intervenes, and after speaking of the justice and mercy of the gods, he asks the King what will be done with the traitor. The people yell out in anger until Joffrey holds out his hand to speak. He mentions that his mother wishes to let Eddard join the Night's Watch and live the remainder of his days at the Wall, stripped of lands and titles, while his betrothed, Sansa, has begged mercy for her father. However, Joffrey dismisses the two as soft-hearted and promises that treason will never go unpunished for as long as he's King. Then he turns to Ser Ilyn and demands Ned's head.
The crowd calls out for Ned's death. Sansa desperately begs for her father's life, only to be restrained by a Kingsguard. Cersei also asks her son to reconsider his sentence. Varys also runs to the King, who remains adamant in his decision. Eddard is pushed to his knees by two Kingsguard, and Ser Ilyn puts on a black hood to conceal his face. He then swings Ice, the greatsword of House Stark itself, and beheads Eddard. The Hound holds Eddard's head up to the adulation of the baying crowd.
The execution of Ned Stark, similarly to the execution of his father and brother, has not discouraged people from defying the Crown, on the contrary: it has extremely infuriated House Stark and the people of the North, inciting them to wage war on House Lannisters.
Many major houses greatly condemn the execution throughout the Seven Kingdoms on both sides of the war. Tywin refers to the action as "madness and stupidity," as it shattered the plans of House Lannister to make peace with House Stark and House Tully, allowing them to deal with both Renly and Stannis. Tyrion laments that the execution "will haunt our family for a generation."
When the news of Ned's death reaches the Northern and River lords, they choose not to support either of Robert's brothers. Declaring independence from the Iron Throne, they proclaimed Robb as the King in the North.
After receiving Ned's letter, Stannis notifies all of Westeros about Joffrey's parentage, declares himself King of the Seven Kingdoms and resolves to take the Iron Throne and rule over the same kingdom that Robert once did, and destroy any who stand in his way.
Long afterward, in Braavos, Ned's execution is portrayed in the play The Bloody Hand in a ridiculous manner. The crowd is amused, but Arya is deeply saddened.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the execution occurs almost identically to the TV series. There are only minor differences, such as the fact that the High Septon is the one who speaks of the justice and mercy of the gods, and he and Varys protest Joffrey's decision to execute Ned. The book also does not indicate that Ned spotted Arya in the crowd or instructed Yoren to protect her; Yoren seems to find her by chance.
Slynt has a more active part in the books at Ned's execution: he commands the Gold Cloaks to fling Ned to the marble, to be beheaded (this is the scene from Arya's POV; Sansa recalls that Slynt did it himself). In the fifth novel, while Cersei performs the walk of atonement, it is revealed in her flashback that Slynt lifted Ned's severed head after the execution; this detail is not mentioned from Arya's and Sansa's POV.
Ser Barristan Selmy is present at the execution in the guise of Arstan Whitebeard. However, this is not revealed until A Dance With Dragons after he has joined the service of Daenerys Targaryen. Barristan notes that, afterward, he went into the Sept and thanked the Seven that Joffrey had stripped him of his cloak. When Daenerys angrily denounces Eddard as a traitor who rebelled against his rightful King, Barristan tells her that Eddard was against the murder of her family and the assassination attempt on her and her son. However, she still considers him equally responsible and labels him as one of the "Usurper's dogs." Ser Barristan is annoyed by this and disagrees with his Queen but remains silent as it is not his place to speak.
It is also mentioned in the books that the High Septon and the Faith of the Seven are outraged that the execution was performed on the steps of the Sept, profaning the holy site with blood in their eyes, as well as irreparably damaging the Crown's relations with the Faith (as Cersei had assured the High Septon beforehand that Eddard would be allowed to live after he confessed his treason, only to then appear a liar in the High Septon's eyes). Even several years after Eddard's death, members of the Faith (such as the High Sparrow) would continue to criticize Cersei for allowing Joffrey to commit such a wanton act of blasphemy on a holy site.
While Cersei performs the walk of atonement, she muses that Joffrey made a terrible mistake by commanding to execute Eddard; had he lived and joined the Watch, the North would not have gone to war, and Tywin would have dealt with Robert's brothers.
Eddard Stark, about to be executed for treason against King Joffrey.
Treason is a serious crime against a sovereign or the realm or kingdom as a whole, including rebellion, regicide, oathbreaking, and espionage. A queen consort committing infidelity against the king is also considered treason.
The punishment for treason is death, usually by public execution. If expedient, a traitor may instead be pardoned in exchange of hostages or by agreeing to take the black and join the Night's Watch.
Like oathbreaking, the nature of treason is not an absolute one and is subject to political machinations. It can often depend on whether said treason is successful. While a defeated rebel will be condemned and executed as a traitor, a victorious one will be in power and will merely receive the epithet usurper.
In the city of King's Landing, those accused of treason are confined to the Black Cells.
With Jaime:{Joffrey I Baratheon}{Myrcella Baratheon}{Tommen I Baratheon}
Histories & Lore:"Mad King Aerys: House Lannister""The Sack of King's Landing: House Stark""The Sack of King's Landing: House Lannister""House Clegane""Robert's Rebellion: Jaime Lannister""King's Landing"
Queen Cersei I Lannister was the twentieth ruler of the Seven Kingdoms and the widow of King Robert Baratheon. She was the daughter of Lord Tywin Lannister, twin sister of Jaime Lannister and elder sister of Tyrion Lannister. She was involved in an incestuous relationship with Jaime, who was secretly the father of her three bastard children, Joffrey, Myrcella and Tommen.
After all her children died, Cersei assumed the throne, making her the first officially recognized queen regnant in the history of the Seven Kingdoms. Her reign came to an abrupt end during the Battle of King's Landing, where she and Jaime were killed. She was the last monarch to sit on the Iron Throne.
Cersei was the only daughter and eldest child of Lord Tywin and Lady Joanna Lannister. Cersei was the elder twin of Jaime Lannister and the elder sister of Tyrion Lannister. She was raised in the family seat of Casterly Rock. She was known for her great beauty as a young girl.[citation needed]
Cersei's mother died when she was four years old, after giving birth to her younger brother Tyrion. Like her father, Cersei always blamed Tyrion for her mother's death and deeply resented that her mother died so that Tyrion would be brought into the world. Tywin was constantly away from home during Cersei’s childhood and teenage years, serving as Hand of the King at the capital, with only infrequent visits back to his seat at Casterly Rock. Coupled with the death of her mother, this meant that Cersei and her two brothers were primarily raised by servants attached to House Lannister. She began an incestuous relationship with Jaime in her youth which continued despite her marriage. While Cersei had other partners in King’s Landing, Jaime always kept himself strictly for her.
Cersei hoped she would marry Rhaegar Targaryen, or at least become Queen at any rate.
When she was about fifteen, Cersei and her friend Melara visited Maggy, a woods witch and reputed fortune teller dwelling in a hut deep in a forest close to Casterly Rock. Melara was reluctant, but Cersei convinced her to go. After rudely awakening her and insisting on having her future foretold, Maggy tasted a drop of her blood and revealed to Cersei she wouldn't marry "the Prince" but "the King", and while the king would have twenty children, she would bear only three children who will wear golden crowns as well as golden shrouds. Finally, she revealed to Cersei that although she would indeed be Queen, she would be cast down by another, younger and more beautiful queen.
Cersei marries Robert Baratheon.
After the end of the civil war which ended the reign of House Targaryen, Cersei was married to King Robert Baratheon, a political marriage Robert agreed to in thanks for her father's last-minute alliance. She was only 19 when she married Robert and became Queen. At first, Cersei was infatuated with the handsome Robert, but their love began to wane when he called her "Lyanna" on their wedding night. She nevertheless bore Robert a son who died shortly after his birth. Cersei was devastated by the loss of her son and refused to have the body taken from her, forcing Robert to hold her while they took her son from her. In time, Cersei's feelings for Robert turned to hatred and she returned to her brother as a result. Her three children, Joffrey, Myrcella and Tommen, were officially Robert's, but in reality were the products of her incestuous relationship with Jaime.
Jaime comforts Cersei during Jon Arryn's funeral.
In King's Landing, Queen Cersei watches the Silent Sisters preparing the body of Lord Jon Arryn, the Hand of the King, for burial. She and her twin brother, Jaime, discuss the situation and wonder if Jon told anyone else about what he had discovered. Jaime tells her not to worry, since if the king knew the truth they'd be dead already, and that Robert will simply choose a new Hand of the King everything will go on as normal. She suggests that Jaime could be the next Hand, but Jaime refuses, citing the position as too much responsibility and danger.
Cersei arrives in Winterfell.
King Robert decides to travel to Winterfell and ask his best friend, Lord Eddard Stark, to become the new Hand, as well as proposing that his son Joffrey marry Eddard's eldest daughter, Sansa. Cersei, Jaime, and a retinue of courtiers accompany him. When the royal party arrives at Winterfell (the seat of House Stark) a month later, Eddard presents his household to Robert and Cersei, who is greeted much more formally than Robert.
Cersei and Catelyn observe Robert's actions.
After initial greetings, Robert demands to see the crypts and pay his respects to his former betrothed, Lyanna Stark, stoking Cersei's impatience, eager to rest after a month's travel. After Robert and Eddard depart, Cersei sends Jaime to find their younger brother Tyrion, who has become distracted at the local brothel. That evening, a great feast is held and Cersei and Catelyn Stark exchange cordial words. Cersei seems impressed by Sansa, thinking that she will be a great success at court.
Cersei makes love with Jaime.
The next morning, Eddard and Robert go hunting, leaving the castle largely empty. Cersei and Jaime liaise in derelict tower. Bran Stark climbs the tower and finds them engaged in sexual intercourse. He is caught watching by Cersei, and Jaime grabs him. Whilst Cersei immediately becomes worried that their secret will be exposed, Jaime feigns Bran with a sense of safety. He asks how old Bran is. When Bran replies "ten", Jaime sighs and pushes him out of the window, musing, "The things I do for love."
Cersei scolds Tyrion.
A month later, at breakfast, Tyrion tells his family that Bran is expected to live and notes his sibling's guarded reactions to the news. Cersei notes that it no mercy to let the boy live, after which Tyrion snidely remarks that only the Gods know his fate. Tyrion then crudely tells his family what he plans to do whilst at the Wall, and although Tommen and Myrcella laugh, Cersei ushers them away from his "filth." In response to Tyrion's information, Cersei visits Catelyn, who is sitting vigil for Bran. Cersei tells Catelyn that her first child, a beautiful, black-haired boy, died of a fever.
She and Robert were grief-stricken and her prayers and tears were for naught. She offers to pray for Bran's survival, hoping that this time the gods will listen. The royal party sets out for King's Landing, now joined by Eddard, Sansa and Arya. However, an incident between Arya's direwolf and Joffrey on the Kingsroad escalates into an argument between Cersei and Eddard. Robert defuses the situation by agreeing that he and Eddard will attend to their own discipline. Cersei insists that the direwolf must be killed. When Nymeria cannot be found (Arya having driven her off to protect her), Cersei has Sansa's wolf, Lady, killed instead. A furious Eddard attends to the matter himself to spare Lady a much more grisly death at the hands of Ilyn Payne.
Cersei advises Joffrey.
Arriving back at court, Cersei talks to Joffrey about the incident on the Kingsroad. She tells him that when he is king, the truth will be whatever he decides it will be. Joffrey tells her that he thinks there will be trouble with the Starks, and that when he is king he'll double their taxes, force them to contribute to a standing army and, if they should object, he'd crush them. Cersei elucidates that the North is too vast and wild to be militarily conquered by outsiders. She cautions Joffrey that he will need to be cleverer as king. She also advises him to be kind to Sansa to avoid causing trouble for later, and concludes that "anyone who isn't us is an enemy." A raven arrives in King's Landing with news of Bran's recovery. Cersei fears he will expose their secret, but Jaime comforts her.
Cersei attends the tournament with her immediate family.
At the tournament, a drunken Robert embarrasses Cersei, causing her to leave. She visits Eddard at his chambers, remarking at how the Hand is not at his own tournament. Though Cersei attempts to start the conversation in an attempt to put the incident on the Kingsroad behind them, Eddard correctly deduces that she has an ulterior motive for her visit. Cersei then wonders aloud to Eddard what his true purpose is for being at King's Landing, as she knows how little Starks enjoy being in the capital. When Eddard tells her he is there to faithfully serve their King, Cersei remarks that just as his brother Brandon was born to lead, Eddard was born to follow.
Cersei and Robert share a drink and discuss the threat from the Dothraki now that Daenerys Targaryen is married and pregnant. Cersei also tells Robert that at the start of their marriage she truly loved him, even after their first boy died, for quite a while. He says he knows, but could never love her back due to his feelings for Lyanna Stark.
Cersei and Robert visit Ned.
Cersei and King Robert visit Eddard as he recovers from wounds sustained fighting Jaime and his guards. Cersei is furious with Eddard for having her brother Tyrion arrested and for fighting with Jaime, but Eddard is unrepentant. Finding Robert unresponsive to this, she scolds him. He then hits her across the face, leaving an obvious mark. She marks that this only increases her integrity, but Robert threatens her to silence, promising to hit her again if she speaks of it.
Cersei reveals the truth to Ned.
Eddard confronts Cersei and tells her he knows her children are fathered by Jaime. She does not deny it, instead saying that she and her brother belong together, always. Cersei says she did love Robert at first, but on their wedding night he whispered Lyanna's name, which soured their relationship afterwards. Eddard advises her to leave King's Landing before Robert returns from a hunt, as he will then tell Robert the truth. Cersei instead warns him that "In the game of thrones, you win or you die."
Cersei serves as Queen Regent following the death of Robert.
Robert is mortally wounded on the hunt. Cersei is concerned that Eddard will tell Robert the truth, but Ned chooses to spare his friend further pain. Robert names Eddard Protector of the Realm and regent. Upon Robert's death Cersei quickly installs Joffrey on the throne. Eddard tries to reveal the truth with the help of Petyr 'Littlefinger' Baelish, but Baelish betrays him and sides with Cersei. Eddard is arrested and imprisoned, while his guards are killed.
Cersei persuades Sansa to write a letter asking her brother Robb to bend the knee to Joffrey in return for her father's life. Sansa agrees, but the plan backfires, as the letter merely encourages Robb to raise an army and march into the Riverlands to confront the Lannister armies directly. In open court, Cersei encourages Sansa to make a new plea to Joffrey for her father's life. Joffrey agrees to spare him and let him join the Night's Watch, if Eddard recants the claims he has made about Joffrey not being the true king. Sansa is sure he will.
Cersei, Joffrey, and Sansa watch as Ned is executed.
Cersei is present at the Sept of Baelor when Eddard Stark 'confesses' his crimes, in accordance with the arrangement brokered by Sansa and Varys. She is visibly horrified when Joffrey arrogantly flouts the arrangement and instead demands Eddard's decapitation. Knowing that this will only lead to another war, she frantically tries to persuade her son to reconsider, but the order is nonetheless carried out by Ser Ilyn Payne, the royal executioner.
Cersei orders Lancel into bed.
Sure enough, war erupts between the Lannister and Stark armies in the Riverlands and Cersei attempts to secure her son's hold on the Iron Throne. She takes a new lover, her cousin Lancel who was King Robert's squire and gave him the wine that made him too drunk to slay the boar that killed him. She also receives a letter informing her of Jaime's capture by Robb Stark.
Cersei continues to govern from King's Landing as the Queen Regent to Joffrey. She is driven to defend Joffrey's claim in the face of several challengers in the War of the Five Kings. Facing imminent winter, she orders the city gates barred to prevent further refugees from entering the city. She is perturbed by the arrival of her brother Tyrion, who has been named acting Hand of the King by their father Tywin Lannister. She fears that Tyrion schemes to usurp her power and is frustrated when he tells her that since she failed to prevent the death of Eddard Stark, she has been viewed as the disappointing child by Tywin. Tyrion wins her temporary acceptance when he pledges to free Jaime from captivity, but insists that they need to find the fugitive Arya Stark in order to facilitate a prisoner exchange.
Cersei tasks Littlefinger with finding Arya Stark.
Stannis Baratheon sends copies of a letter detailing Cersei's incestuous relationship with Jaime and the illegitimacy of her children to high lords throughout the seven kingdoms, fueling widespread rumors. Cersei tasks Petyr Baelish with recovering Arya and is enraged when Baelish dares to reference the rumors. She asks Joffrey to enlist the aid of Tywin in the search, but he refuses to involve his grandfather. He provokes an argument with Cersei about the rumors and threatens her life when she slaps him. He then orders a citywide massacre of Robert Baratheon's bastard children so that he will have no rival claimants in case his true parentage is revealed.
Cersei reminds Tyrion of his birth and, hence, their mother's death.
Cersei rejects King Robb Stark's peace terms and refuses a request for aid from the Night's Watch, ignoring news of wights attacking the Lord Commander Mormont. Tyrion ousts Lord Janos Slynt as commander of the City Watch for his part in the massacre as well as his betrayal of Ned Stark. Cersei angrily confronts him for displacing her loyal servant.
He warns her to consider the importance of the support of her subjects; she is dismissive of his concerns but becomes upset at the weight of responsibility she has born. Tyrion mocks her relationship with Jaime. She ends the discussion by saying that Tyrion's finest joke was killing their mother when he was born.
Tyrion tests the loyalty of the remaining Small Council members by feeding each of them a different marriage plan for Myrcella. Pycelle dutifully informs Cersei of Tyrion's plans to marry Myrcella into House Martell of Dorne despite his promise to keep them secret. Cersei confronts Tyrion who insists that the alliance is necessary and that Myrcella will be safer in Dorne. He then has Pycelle arrested for breaking his confidence. Tyrion sends Petyr Baelish to negotiate with Catelyn Stark, leaving Varys as the last active member of Cersei's Small Council in the city.
Robb Stark wins a major victory at the Battle of Oxcross. Joffrey responds by having Sansa Stark publicly beaten, sparing her only because of Cersei's orders, that if Sansa is killed the Starks will exact vengeance on his uncle Jaime. Tyrion intervenes and halts the ordeal, causing further deterioration in his relationship with Joffrey.
Cersei issues a warrant demanding the release of Pycelle. She tasks her lover and cousin Lancel Lannister with delivering it to Tyrion. Lancel arrives in the middle of the night, and Tyrion asks why he waited so long to deliver the message. When Lancel says he just came from Cersei, Tyrion notices Lancel smells of Cersei's favorite perfume, and threatens to expose their relationship to Joffrey unless Lancel agrees to become his double agent, reporting everything Cersei does.
Cersei keeps her secrets from her brother.
Cersei is pleased when she learns of King Renly Baratheon's death. Tyrion considers it a sign of an imminent attack by his brother King Stannis Baratheon, who has assumed control of Renly's army. Cersei refuses to discuss measures for the defense of the city and remains irate about the marriage pact with Dorne. Tyrion learns from Lancel that Cersei is relying on the Alchemists' Guild to supply Wildfire to defend the city and supplants her relationship with the Guild.
Cersei and the court assemble at the shore of the Blackwater Bay for the departure of Princess Myrcella. Cersei remains livid about Tyrion's arrangements for her daughter. She threatens to one day deprive him of someone he loves. As they move through the city to return to the Red Keep they are confronted by angry crowds of starving smallfolk. Joffrey is hit by thrown excrement and triggers a riot by demanding that his guards kill everyone in the crowd. Tyrion marshals the Lannister guards to lead them to safety.
Cersei and Sansa discuss womanhood.
Upon learning that Sansa has flowered for the first time, Cersei summons Sansa and offers her advice on motherhood. Cersei tells her to love only her children, since love makes you weak, although it is a mother's obligation to love her children. Sansa asks if she should love Joffrey; Cersei replies that she is welcome to try.
Cersei meets with Tyrion to discuss the imminent attack of King's Landing by King Stannis Baratheon. She admits her struggles controlling Joffrey and openly references her relationship with Jaime. She confides her fear that Joffrey's madness is the price for her sins, including her incestuous relationship. Tyrion tries to comfort her by telling her that Tommen and Myrcella are good, decent children.
Cersei tells Tyrion of her suspicions.
Joffrey is keen to fight in defense of the city. Cersei is furious and suspects Tyrion of trying to kill her son. She mistakenly identifies Ros as his lover because of the Lannister necklace Tyrion gave her and seizes the opportunity to deliver on the threat she made when Myrcella left. Cersei has the prostitute kidnapped as insurance against Tyrion placing Joffrey in harms way. She reveals her ploy over dinner and Tyrion vows to free Ros and take revenge when Cersei least suspects it.
Cersei provides refuge for the women of the court in Maegor's Holdfast during the battle. She prepares for the worst by having Ser Ilyn Payne present and obtaining deadly essence of nightshade poison from the reinstated Pycelle. She drinks heavily during the siege and torments Sansa Stark when she tries to keep up the morale of the women by praying. She tells Sansa that the gods have no mercy and that Ser Ilyn is there to kill them should the Red Keep be breached.
Lancel is wounded and returns from the walls to report that Stannis has reached the Mud Gate, despite Tyrion's ingenious use of Wildfire to destroy a large portion of his fleet. Cersei sends Lancel to bring Joffrey back to the Red Keep, ignoring his protests that it will damage morale. Joffrey willingly leaves the field but his exit is a blow to the men.
Cersei and Tommen upon Tywin's return to King's Landing.
Lancel begs Cersei to let him return Joffrey to the front, believing the battle is lost otherwise. Cersei pushes him into a stone pillar, aggravating his injury, and storms out. Convinced the battle is lost, and not wanting her children to die by Stannis's hand, she takes Tommen to the Iron Throne room and prepares to poison him. She is stopped just in time by the unexpected arrival of Tywin, who reports that they have won the battle. Tyrion is betrayed and wounded by Ser Mandon Moore of the Kingsguard during the fighting. Tyrion's role in defending the city is not acknowledged and he is left to recover from his wounds, stripped of his power. Rumors circulate that Cersei ordered the attack on Tyrion. No longer considering Tyrion a threat, Cersei releases Ros.
Cersei orchestrates a public ceremony rewarding those who aided the city in the battle. Tywin is officially recognized as Hand of the King, Petyr Baelish is named Lord of Harrenhal for brokering the alliance with House Tyrell and Ser Loras is offered a favor of his choosing. He asks Joffrey to marry his sister, Margaery Tyrell. Joffrey says that he is constrained by his betrothal to Sansa but Cersei intervenes to insist that the treachery of House Stark frees him from any obligation. The court welcome the decision with a round of applause.
Some weeks after the Battle of Blackwater, Cersei pays Tyrion a visit accompanied by two of her son's Kingsguard. She only gains entrance to Tyrion's chambers after agreeing to leave her guards outside. Once inside Cersei demands to know how he will "slander" her to their father now that he is here. Tyrion asks when he has ever slandered her before, and she reminds him of a time at Casterly Rock that he got her in serious trouble with their father: when she was nine years old, Cersei discovered that a servant girl (also nine years old) had stolen a necklace, so she had her guards beat the girl, who ended up losing an eye. Tyrion told their father what Cersei had done and he was angered, but Cersei notes that the servant girl never stole a necklace again. Tyrion quips that it isn't "slander" if it's true, and he only told Tywin what she really did. The queen admits that Tyrion is a clever man but not as clever as he might believe. Tyrion merely retorts that this still makes him a great deal more clever than her. Cersei then leaves abruptly and just in time to prevent Meryn Trant and Bronn from exchanging blows.
At night, Cersei and Joffrey are hosting a private dinner party for Loras and Margaery Tyrell. Cersei is surprised that Margaery has been handing out food aid to the smallfolk of the city and visiting orphanages. Unlike Cersei, who only knows how to rule through fear, Margaery is skilled at winning the hearts and minds of the common people, and this concerns Cersei. After trading veiled insults with both her son and future daughter-in-law, it becomes clear that Cersei doesn't trust Margaery and fears that the younger woman has come to usurp her as queen.
Cersei tries to tell Joffrey of Margaery's true intentions.
While speaking with Joffrey about his upcoming wedding, Cersei begins to criticize Margaery, saying that she is only charitable to the poor to build up her own reputation and that she dresses like a harlot for a reason. Joffrey, however, dismissively tells Cersei off.
At King's Landing, Tywin Lannister calls the first meeting of the Small Council since he arrived in the city and assumed his position as Hand of the King. He has the meeting place changed to a room next to his own quarters in the Tower of the Hand, asserting his dominance. Tywin arrives early and has all of the council members called in at once. All of the seats are on one side of the table, as a non-verbal test to see how each of them reacts around him. Cersei arrives to find the seats are all occupied, but not wanting to play that game and be relegated to a lowly position, she pulls up a chair so she is sitting at Tywin's right hand, opposite Littlefinger.
Cersei and Olenna discuss their sons in the emptiness of the Great Sept.
While Joffrey is giving Margaery a tour of the Sept of Baelor, Cersei speaks with Lady Olenna, exchanging stories about their deceased husbands. When Margaery takes Joffrey with her to greet the common people, Cersei realizes that she has lost control of Joffrey to the Tyrells. Later, Cersei meets with Tywin to discuss the Tyrells and informs him how Margaery has begun to manipulate Joffrey. Tywin is satisfied, as Cersei has only let Joffrey do whatever he pleased. He also tells her that she is not as smart as she thinks she is and that undermining the Tyrells would be irrational considering how they helped defeat Stannis. When Margaery and Joffrey wave to the crowd outside the Sept, Cersei initially fears for Joffrey's safety. Upon realizing that the crowd is hailing the two, Cersei then realizes that Margaery has a control over Joffrey.
Cersei and Littlefinger
Cersei encounters Lord Baelish and informs him that she fears the Tyrells do not have the Lannisters' best interest at heart. Littlefinger agrees that he will use his spies to uncover their plans, one of which turns out to be marrying Loras to Sansa. Initially, Cersei is delighted when her father decides to "kill this union in its crib" by instead having Tyrion marry Sansa to secure the North. However, her smug attitude towards Tyrion when this is revealed to him quickly evaporates when Tywin reveals that he intends to have her marry Loras to secure the Reach.
Cersei protests against this, saying she is Queen Regent and not some broodmare, but Tywin angrily asserts that she is his daughter and she will do what he tells her and put an end to the "rumors" about her. Cersei begs her father not to make her enter another loveless marriage but Tywin refuses to hear another word from either of his children, saying they have disgraced the family name for far too long. As Tywin leaves the room, Cersei hesitantly opens her eyes and shifts her gaze toward Tyrion, expecting to see him laughing at her but Tyrion is too glum about his own awkward predicament.
Cersei and Tyrion Lannister observe Loras and Sansa from Cersei's chambers overlooking the garden. Tyrion sarcastically asks which of the four of them has it the worst. He then finally accuses his sister of trying to have him killed during the Battle of the Blackwater. Cersei, tired of fighting him, remains quiet while he deduces that only two people can command the Kingsguard. Tyrion realizes that while Cersei certainly has the authority to command a Kingsguard, she isn't stupid enough to command Ser Mandon Moore to kill him in public. Tyrion realizes that it was in fact Joffrey who ordered Ser Mandon Moore to kill him, because Tyrion was the only one who stood up to him. Cersei tells him his life is not in danger from Joffrey, as he dare not try anything like that now that Tywin is the Hand. They discuss about Jaime's possible return to King's Landing, with Cersei wondering where he could possibly be. She asks Tyrion which one of them should be the one to break the news to Sansa. Tyrion decides he might as well dash Sansa's hopes sooner rather than later.
Cersei threatens to have Margaery Tyrell strangled in her sleep.
As the court gathers for Tyrion's wedding, Cersei finally snaps when Margaery says she looks radiant. Cersei reminds the queen-in-waiting of the lyrics of "The Rains of Castamere" and to take a lesson of what happened to House Reyne. Cersei threatens to have Margaery strangled in her sleep if she ever refers to her as "sister" again. Cersei maintains a cool expression during the ceremony, and does not laugh when Joffrey ridicules Tyrion by removing his footstool. During the wedding feast, Joffrey heads off to torment Sansa some more. Fed up with him, Cersei tells him to speak with Margaery instead, but he ignores her. Cersei later retreats to an upper gallery and stares despondently out over Blackwater Bay. Loras sees her and tries to make small talk, but Cersei rudely brushes him off.
Cersei, Tywin and Joffrey listen to Tyrion's threats.
Cersei is present at the meeting where Tyrion learns of Robb and Catelyn's deaths. Joffrey comments that he wants to present Robb's head to Sansa at his wedding feast as promised, though Varys reminds him that Sansa is now his aunt-by-marriage. Cersei brushes it off as a joke, though Joffrey denies this. She also reassures Joffrey when he is threatened by Tyrion. At the end of the meeting, she leads Joffrey to bed after he calls out Tywin's cowardice during the Rebellion.
Later, Cersei visits Tyrion and rudely dismisses Podrick. She tells Tyrion that he should give Sansa a son if he truly wants to make her happy, though Tyrion responds by asking her if she is happy as she has children. Cersei admits that she is not happy, but would've thrown herself "from the highest window in the Red Keep" without them, even Joffrey. She recounts of how he was all she had before Myrcella was born and how she would spend hours looking at him, and acknowledges that he is one of the "terrible ones." Tyrion asks her when this will end, and Cersei replies when they have dealt with all their enemies. Tyrion mentions how dealing with one enemy creates two more, and she just says that they will be in this position for a long time.
Cersei is reunited with Jaime.
When Jaime returns to King's Landing, he immediately goes to Cersei's chambers and calls her name. Looking at seashells on her bed, smiling, she turns around upon hearing her name called, shocked and sickened at finding him maimed.
Cersei rejects Jaime.
Cersei is present while Qyburn is attaching Jaime's golden prosthetic hand that she commissioned for him because she's so disgusted by his stump. After Qyburn departs from Cersei's chambers, Jaime asks why she drinks more than she used to. Cersei replies that she drinks more because Jaime left the capital, Robert was killed, Myrcella was shipped off to Dorne, they suffered through a siege, and her son Joffrey is being married to Margaery whom she despises. When Jaime tries to make love to her, she refuses him and says that everything has changed and that he took too long to return.
Cersei is present at the breakfast of Joffrey and Margaery and tells Tywin about Shae being seen leaving Tyrion's chambers. During the wedding feast, Cersei sits with the rest of the royal family. When Brienne of Tarth approaches the king and Margaery, she bows and congratulates them on their marriage.
Cersei quickly points out that she bowed instead of performing a curtsy. She then thanks Brienne for bringing her brother back and asks her if she loves Jaime. Brienne responds by walking off.
After Margaery says that the leftovers are going to the poor, Cersei kisses her on the cheek and says she is an inspiration to them all. Shortly after, she goes over to Pycelle, who is harassing a young woman. Cersei tells Pycelle to leave her alone and says that she should get Qyburn to examine her. Pycelle mocks Qyburn, but Cersei responds by ordering Pycelle to go to the kitchens and order the cooks to give the leftovers to the dogs instead. Pycelle is reluctant to do so, but Cersei threatens to have him killed if he does not. Cersei and Tywin meet Oberyn and Ellaria and the four get into a heated discussion when Cersei hypocritically mocks Ellaria's baseborn origins despite the fact that her own children are also bastards (and born out of incest no less).
Cersei holds Joffrey as he dies.
Joffrey then makes his speech, publicly embarrassing Tyrion, much to Cersei's delight. Joffrey then begins to choke on his wine, causing him to gasp for air and collapse. Cersei rushes over to her son, who points towards Tyrion. He then dies in her arms, blood flowing from his eyes and mouth from the effects of the strangler. In a blind rage, she accuses Tyrion and has him arrested. Upon noticing that Sansa has vanished, she immediately begins to suspect her too and petulantly demands to know her whereabouts.
Jaime tempts Cersei within the Great Sept of Baelor.
Cersei is mourning Joffrey while Tywin arrives and immediately begins instructing Tommen on the qualities of a good king, much to her annoyance. After the two leave, Jaime arrives to comfort Cersei. She breaks down into tears and asks Jaime to avenge their son by killing Tyrion. Jaime is not convinced that Tyrion was behind the murder and tells Cersei that there will be a trial, but she does not care. He tries to comfort her through his affections. Cersei refuses initially, but Jaime is aggressive. Cersei insists that the sept during a private viewing of their son's corpse is a highly inappropriate place for sex, and asks Jaime to stop, saying "It isn't right, it isn't right..." and Jaime refuses to stop, saying, "I don't care, I don't care...." They proceed to embrace and have rough, angry sex on the floor next to Joffrey's corpse.
Jaime discusses Sansa with Cersei.
Cersei calls Jaime to his chambers, but only to know about Kingsguard formations for protecting Tommen. She then asks why Catelyn Stark released him from his captivity. Jaime replies that he swore by all the gods that he would bring back Catelyn Stark's daughters to her. Cersei questions his loyalty to their enemies, but Jaime states that he only did it so he could return to her. She then asks if he could track down and kill Sansa Stark, believing that she schemed with Tyrion to murder Joffrey. Jaime remains silent. He then tries to convince Cersei that Tyrion is innocent, but she refutes that he has always pitied their little brother and firmly believes that Tyrion is the monster that killed their son. Cersei tells Jaime that she wants four men at Tommen's door and abruptly dismisses him, referring to him only as "Lord Commander", showing that their relationship has almost completely deteriorated.
Cersei and Margaery discuss Tommen's future.
Cersei is present at the coronation of her son, Tommen. Seeing Margaery at the coronation, Cersei tells her that she understands that Joffrey was a monster, but as her first child, Cersei still loved him.
She also believes the newly crowned Tommen will make a good and decent king, but he needs guidance. Cersei asks Margaery if she is still interested in being queen. Margaery says she will need to speak to her father about the matter.
Cersei is present at a Small Council that discusses the threat of Daenerys Targaryen, who they learn has recently conquered Meereen. Cersei doubts that Daenerys is a credible threat to the Iron Throne, a view not shared by the rest of the council. When Varys mentions that Sandor Clegane has been spotted in the Riverlands, Cersei recounts him as being both a coward and a traitor to the crown.
Cersei testifies against Tyrion at his trial.
At Tyrion's trial, Cersei is verbally confronted by Tyrion, who angrily declares his innocence, but tells her how he wishes he could have been the one to murder Joffrey and that he felt the boy deserved it.
Cersei presides over Tyrion's trial by combat.
Cersei bribes Bronn to sway him from being Tyrion's champion in his trial by combat by arranging for him to marry Lollys Stokeworth, and later she approaches Gregor Clegane and enlists him as her champion.
Initially worried for the possibility of Clegane's failure, as Tyrion's champion, Oberyn Martell, has more passion throughout the fight, as Clegane killed his sister, Elia Martell. However, this ultimately proves to be Oberyn's downfall, as Gregor manages to maneuver him to the ground and crush his skull. She watches proudly as the Mountain defeats him and smiles as their father sentences Tyrion to death. She later sees to the treatment of Ser Gregor's wounds.
Cersei and Jaime make love after Cersei tells Tywin of their relationship.
Cersei confronts her father and defiantly asserts once again that she will not consent to marry Loras Tyrell. When Tywin insists, she shocks him further by confirming for the first time to his face that the rumors about her relationship with her twin brother are in fact true. Disgusted, she leaves Tywin's quarters and proceeds to find Jaime. Though they still disagree on the fate of their younger brother, she approaches Jaime and kisses him passionately. She reaffirms her love for him and her wishes to continue their relationship regardless of what others may say. She kisses his gold hand as a symbol of her acceptance, and he makes love to her.
Escorted by Ser Meryn, Cersei walks to the Great Sept of Baelor for Tywin's funeral, surrounded by numerous lords and ladies, including Margaery, who she glances at suspiciously. Cersei is stopped by the High Septon, who suggests to her that they start soon, since lords and ladies have come from all over Westeros, but she says they will wait a little longer while she has a moment alone with Jaime and their father's corpse.
Cersei kisses her father goodbye.
Inside, Jaime warns that all the power and prestige their father built for House Lannister belongs to them now, and that once everyone sees that Tywin is truly dead, their enemies will do everything they can to take it away from them. Cersei bluntly states that their true enemy is Tyrion and that Jaime is partly responsible for Tywin's death since he was the one who released their father's murderer, and then she leaves him.
Later, during Tywin's wake, Cersei is approached by Loras, who babbles on and on, but she ignores him, as she is intently watching Tommen and Margaery sharing a few words and holding hands. Pycelle offers his condolences, yet she completely ignores him as well. She is then approached by Lancel, who has recovered from his wounds at the Blackwater and become extremely pious and joined the Sparrows. Kevan apologizes for the appearance of his son, but Cersei comforts him by saying Lancel will grow out of this phase. While she is having a private moment, Lancel approaches her again and asks for her forgiveness for their "unnatural" relationship, and for serving Robert the wine that led to his death. Cersei brushes off Lancel's request, and his prayers for Tywin's soul.
Cersei speaks with Jaime about retrieving Myrcella from Dorne.
Cersei summons Jaime to show him a box she's received. Inside, a stuffed Red Viper holds Myrcella's necklace in its jaws. Cersei is both unnerved and unsurprised by the threat as Dorne blames the Lannisters for the deaths of Oberyn and Elia Martell. Acknowledging Cersei's distress, Jaime makes a promise: "I'm going to Dorne. And I'm bringing our daughter home." When Jaime asks Bronn to join him in this quest, he reveals that Cersei has arranged for Wyllis Bracken to wed Lollys Stokeworth instead of Bronn, breaking their agreement.
Later, two men bring Cersei the head of a dwarf. She's disappointed it's not her brother, but donates the head to Qyburn's lab. Cersei presides over the Small Council and doles out new titles on Tommen's behalf: Qyburn is named Master of Whisperers, and Mace Tyrell takes on the additional title of Master of Coin. When Cersei appoints her uncle Kevan as Master of War, he rejects the offer. "I did not return to the capital to serve as your puppet," he says, emphasizing that Tommen should attend the meetings himself. Kevan reminds Cersei she's nothing more than Queen Mother, and he decides to return to Casterly Rock. Cersei is left dissatisfied with Kevan's departure.
Tommen asks Cersei of Casterly Rock.
On the way to the Sept of Baelor, Cersei is incensed to find the crowd cheering Margaery's name. She remains stone-faced throughout the ceremony. The following morning, Cersei walks with Tommen along the battlements and tries to subtly turn him against his wife, but Tommen scares her by asking her if she'd prefer to go back to Casterly Rock. Cersei goes to confront Margaery, finding her bragging about Tommen's libido to her handmaidens. Cersei tries to verbally spar with Margaery as she used to, but the younger queen is in her prime, and assaults Cersei with backhanded compliments and subtle barbs. Realizing that she is losing, Cersei departs.
Later on, Cersei and the Small Council are visited by the High Septon, who has recently been abducted from Littlefinger's brothel and forced to walk naked through the streets of King's Landing. Cersei is mildly amused and not particularly sympathetic to the man's plight. She later pays a visit to the so-called High Sparrow. Assuming a much more conciliatory and humble tone than she ever has before, Cersei talks with him about the relationship between the Faith and the Crown, and also mentions that she's had the High Septon thrown in the Black Cells.
Cersei greets the High Sparrow.
Cersei meets with the High Sparrow again and names him as the new High Septon, allowing him to reinstate the Faith Militant, a military order dedicated to defending the Faith of the Seven which was abolished two centuries ago. Loras Tyrell is arrested during the ensuing rampage for his homosexuality, which Margaery believes is part of Cersei's plan to divide her and Tommen.
Tommen confronts his mother and demands that Loras be released, but she calmly tells him that she didn't order his arrest, although her tone of voice seems to imply that she knew beforehand that Loras would be arrested and allowed it to happen in order to interfere with Margaery and Tommen's relationship.
During her meetings with Littlefinger, Cersei again feigns ignorance about Loras' arrest and seems unconcerned about what repercussions this might have. The Queen Regent is about to dismiss Baelish when he admits that even though he lost track of Arya, he has discovered Sansa Stark's whereabouts.
She's finally back at Winterfell 'allying' herself with House Bolton. Cersei is naturally livid that the Boltons have betrayed her and vows that they'll end up being flayed for their crimes. Petyr then suggests that Cersei could just wait a while until Stannis has dealt with the Boltons or vice versa. The Vale army (under his command) could later easily mop up the remains. The only boon Littlefinger wants for his service is to be named Warden of the North. Cersei readily agrees on the condition that Baelish brings her Sansa's head.
Cersei sits next to Tommen during Loras's trial.
After a brief but tense meeting with Olenna in which mutual insults are exchanged, Cersei takes part in the trial of Loras Tyrell. Though she appears incredulous towards the accusations, it is clear that she has played a part in engineering the entire process. She plays the same trump card that she once did with Tyrion and Shae by making a deal with Olyvar, Loras's lover, to testify against Loras in exchange for being spared from persecution. As a result of her schemes, Loras is to be put on trial, and Margaery is imprisoned for giving false testimony.
Cersei tells Tommen of her love for him.
When Tommen loses his appetite over his wife's arrest, Cersei attempts to calm him down, and gives him a long speech about how as King, he will be faced with many circumstantial situations in which he will be powerless to act, as Robert Baratheon sometimes was, though she proclaims her love for him by claiming that she will do anything it takes to protect him, even if it means burning down entire cities, and weeps as she cuddles her son. She later visits Margaery in her cell, bringing her food and trying to convince her that she will do her utmost to get her out, but Margaery angrily counters that she knows Cersei engineered both her arrest and Loras's in order to retain control over her son, and shouts at her to get out, throwing the bowl of stew at her and calling her a "hateful bitch." Cersei leaves and finds the High Sparrow beneath the Sept of Baelor, who tells her that both Loras and Margaery will be put on trial, and certain septons, including himself, will stand as judges.
Cersei is arrested by the Faith Militant for her crimes.
Cersei thanks the High Sparrow for his actions, and he proceeds to give her a speech about the history of the Sept. He tells her that the Tyrells' falsehoods will be revealed for all the world to see, as in the case of everyone, including Cersei herself. The High Sparrow reveals that Lancel confessed his adulterous affair with Cersei following Jaime's capture by Robb Stark, and orders Cersei arrested, to her horror. She is taken to a cell by a group of septas, but threatens them that her face is the last thing they will see before they die for what they are doing to her.
Cersei remains in custody for the next few days, visited only by Septa Unella, who offers her water in return for a confession, but she repeatedly refuses. She is later visited by Qyburn, who informs her that the charges against her are treason, incest and regicide, which she dismisses as lies, though Qyburn reminds her that the Faith will not depend on physical proof as much as the Crown does in her upcoming trial. She asks about Jaime, but Qyburn claims there has been no response, and further tells her that Pycelle has summoned Kevan back to the capital and Tommen has fallen into a depression.
Qyburn, however, tells Cersei that she can still confess, but she refuses. Before he leaves, Qyburn tells her that his work is progressing. Later, when Unella visits her again, Cersei offers to make her a Lady of the capital or have her killed, depending on whether or not she will help her. Unella pours her water on the floor and leaves. Cersei finally abandons her pride and licks the water from the dungeon floor, breaking into tears.
Cersei pleads for freedom.
Sometime later, Cersei is brought before the High Sparrow to confess her sins. She confesses of adultery with Ser Lancel Lannister, but denies her incestuous relationship with her brother Jaime. She begs to be allowed to go to the Red Keep to see her son Tommen. The High Sparrow accepts, but states that she has to stand trial.
Cersei endures her walk of atonement.
Cersei is brought to a cell where she is stripped naked and washed, and her long blonde hair is cut short. She is then brought outside, where she is forced to walk completely naked through the streets of King's Landing, from the Great Sept of Baelor to the Red Keep as punishment. She is escorted through an angry mob, who hurl filth and vicious insults at her.
Cersei, with vengeance in her eyes, is carried by the Mountain.
With bloody feet, Cersei makes it to the Red Keep. Upon entering the gates, Cersei finds her uncle Kevan Lannister, Grand Maester Pycelle and Qyburn waiting for her. Qyburn attempts to comfort her by covering her body with a cloak. Heavy footsteps are heard, and Qyburn introduces Cersei to the newest member of the Kingsguard: a seven foot tall man in golden armor, the Mountain, who has his face hidden constantly due to Qyburn's experimentation and the effects of manticore venom. Qyburn suggests Cersei to go inside to have a look at her feet, which are badly injured, when the huge knight lifts her up and carries her away.
Cersei is comforted by Jaime following the death of Myrcella.
Once again residing in the Red Keep, Cersei is alerted to Jaime's return and runs excitedly to the port to meet Myrcella for the first time in the space of almost 4 years, but her worst fears are realized when she sees a despondent Jaime standing alone on the boat, with a corpse behind him she immediately realizes is Myrcella's.
Later, Cersei is comforted by Jaime in her quarters. Cersei finally admits to Jaime that she believes their children's deaths truly are destined according to Maggy's prophecy, since both Joffrey and Myrcella are gone and the only one left is Tommen. Jaime scoffs it off and promises Cersei revenge for all that their enemies have taken from them.
A man in King's Landing brags about revealing himself to Cersei during her walk of shame. When the man leaves the crowd to urinate, the gigantic Kingsguard knight walks up behind him and brutally kills him by smashing his head against the wall before reporting back to Cersei.
Cersei speaks with her son.
When Cersei attempts to leave for Myrcella's funeral with the Kingsguard knight in tow, a squad of guards blocks her path; their leader informs her that by order of the king, she is prohibited from leaving the castle, in the interest of her own protection. Cersei demands that they move, but the guards do not budge, even when Cersei's Kingsguard places a hand on his sword. Eventually, Cersei acquiesces and retreats to her chambers. Tommen later visits his mother to apologize for doing nothing when she was arrested and forced to walk through the streets naked, then asks her to teach him to rule. Moved, Cersei tearfully embraces her son.
Cersei and Jaime later visit Qyburn in his lab, where he has swayed some of Varys's little birds into his service, to Cersei's amusement. When Jaime asks Qyburn to order Gregor Clegane to slaughter the High Sparrow and the Faith Militant, Cersei claims it will not be necessary, since she has opted for a trial by combat and again named Gregor as her champion.
Cersei and Jaime intrude on a Small Council meeting.
She then orders Qyburn to place his spies all over Westeros to prevent any other Great Houses from benefiting from the Lannisters' disgrace. Cersei, Jaime and Gregor attend a Small Council meeting, but Kevan, Pycelle, Olenna and Mace Tyrell refuse to accept them, with Olenna coldly reminding Cersei that she is no longer Queen. When they defy the council and sit down, Kevan leads the council out, leaving Cersei alone with Jaime and Gregor.
A few days later, Cersei goes to speak to Tommen, only to find he is already being counseled by Pycelle. Despite the Grand Maester's claim that he is simply offering his wisdom to the king, Cersei coldly orders him to leave. Once alone, Cersei wishes to speak with Tommen in private, having missed the past several Small Council meetings. Tommen is anxious to fight the High Sparrow, since Margaery is still a prisoner, though Cersei reminds him of what the Sparrow forced her to do. Although Tommen knows his mother has always hated Margaery, Cersei claims the rivalry is unimportant, explaining that kings and queens must command respect, and the High Sparrow is little more than an idealistic anarchist using the Faith to achieve his goals. After Tommen reveals his conversation with the High Sparrow and knowledge of something important, Cersei presses him for information.
Cersei tells Kevan and Olenna of her plan.
Cersei and Jaime attend another Small Council meeting, this time presided over by Kevan and Olenna. Though Olenna reminds Cersei she is not welcome, adding her repeated humiliations, Jaime defends his sister, revealing that Tommen has been talking to the High Sparrow about Margaery and Loras. Cersei points out the High Sparrow was expecting them to fight among each other, and before the trial, Margaery will perform her own walk of atonement, which Olenna agrees must not happen. Although Cersei promises to destroy the Sparrows for corrupting Lancel, Kevan warns them the High Sparrow has many supporters, and more lives could be lost in the ensuing battle.
Cersei advises Jaime to follow Tommen's orders.
After his failure at the Sept of Baelor and forced removal from the Kingsguard, Jaime informs Cersei he is being sent to Riverrun to help the Freys deal with Brynden Tully. Despite her brother's protests and anger over Tommen's decision to join the High Sparrow, Cersei advises him to lead the Lannister army as their father intended, confident that the Mountain will win her trial by combat. She kisses Jaime goodbye, reminding him they are the only ones who matter.
Olenna expresses the futility of the Rise of the Sparrows to Cersei.
Cersei visits Olenna Tyrell in an attempt to convince her to stay in King's Landing. She uses Margaery and Loras as an excuse for Olenna to stay, but Olenna angrily reminds Cersei that all this is happening because of Cersei herself. Olenna reminds her of the smug look she gave her when Loras and Margaery were being dragged away by the Faith Militant. She tells Cersei that the universally hated Queen Mother has no support in King's Landing, and has lost.
Qyburn enters Cersei's chamber to inform her that the Faith Militant have entered the Red Keep. Accompanied by Qyburn and the Mountain, Cersei confronts the group. Lancel tells her that the High Sparrow wishes to speak with her at the Sept of Baelor. When she refuses, Lancel tells her that it is not a request.
Cersei chooses violence.
Cersei retorts that the High Sparrow promised that she could stay in the Red Keep until her trial, which Lancel replies that no such promise was made. When Ser Gregor Clegane threatens the Faith Militant, Lancel tells Cersei to order him aside or there would be violence. Cersei says that she chooses violence. One of the Faith Militant attacks the Kingsguard, leaving several visible holes in his armor but drawing no blood. In response, the Mountain rips the man's head off and tosses it aside and Lancel and his men back down.
Cersei is escorted to the Throne Room by Gregor.
Later, Cersei, Qyburn and Ser Gregor enter the Great Hall to find a large crowd gathered for a royal announcement. The ladies in court look at the Queen Mother in detest. Cersei asks Kevan Lannister why she was not informed. Kevan bars her from standing beside her son and tells her that her place was in the gallery "with the other ladies of the court." Cersei reluctantly takes her place there while the other women stand aside, not wanting to be near her or Gregor.
King Tommen Baratheon starts by saying that the Crown and the Faith are the two pillars that hold up this world, and should one collapse, so does the other. He also says that The Father judges them all, and if they break his laws, they shall be punished. He announces that Loras Tyrell and Cersei's trial will be held in the Sept of Baelor on the first day of the festival of The Mother. After much prayer and reflection, he also announces that trial by combat will be forbidden in the Seven Kingdoms, stating that it is a scheme made by those who wants to escape true judgement from the Gods, and that Loras and Cersei would stand trial before seven septons as it was in the earlier days of the Faith.
As the king leaves, Qyburn tells a shocked Cersei, who had been planning on calling a trial by combat with Gregor as her champion, that his little birds have been investigating an old rumor that she had told him about, and that it appears to be much more than a rumor.
Cersei dresses for her trial, despite having no intention of going.
On the day of her trial, Cersei dresses incredibly ornately. She is adorned with fine clothes and all manners of jewelry. However, she does not show up at the Great Sept for her trial, instead viewing the city in the distance from the Red Keep. Unknown to those present at the trial, there is a large cache of wildfire underneath the Sept, placed there by Aerys II at the height of his insanity. Cersei has Qyburn's little birds light candles with eventually shrink to a size in which the cache can be ignited. Shortly before, Cersei has Qyburn and his little birds assassinate Pycelle, so as to consolidate all power to her.
Cersei begins torturing an imprisoned Unella.
The explosion kills Margaery, Mace, and Loras Tyrell, Kevan Lannister, all of the Sparrows including Lancel and the High Sparrow, and a number of King's Landing citizens. Cersei watches amused and then goes on to "confess her sins" including her incestuous relationship with her brother, the murder of her husband and the explosion of the Great Sept, to captured Septa Unella. Later she gives her as prisoner to the Mountain, so she can be tortured, calling "Shame" continuously upon her departure. She also states that Unella is not going to die for some time.
Cersei becomes the new Queen of the Seven Kingdoms
Following the destruction of the Sept, Tommen commits suicide by jumping out a window. Cersei orders that his body be burned and the ashes buried at the ruins of the Sept, along with the ashes of her father, elder son and daughter. Through right of conquest, she has Qyburn crown her Queen of the Seven Kingdoms. During the coronation, she sees Jaime from afar, who gives her a grim look.
Cersei and Jaime discuss Tommen's death.
Following her coronation, Cersei shows Jaime a giant map of Westeros and discusses the multiple foes they now face. While Cersei has dreams of ushering in a long dynasty, Jaime reminds her that they are losing the war, and with all their children dead, there is no Lannister line to inherit the Iron Throne. When Jaime asks Cersei about Tommen, she responds angrily that he betrayed them by committing suicide. Cersei adds that they are the only living Lannisters who count. Jaime tells her that they need allies and reports that House Frey has been exterminated. Cersei angrily reminds him that she has been listening to their father's counsel for the past forty years and has learnt some things.
Cersei and Jaime meet with Euron Greyjoy.
They later meet with Euron Greyjoy to discuss a possible alliance. Though Cersei declines his offer of marriage, Euron graciously departs, promising to return with a gift that will win her heart. Later, Cersei gives a speech urging several nobles from the Reach, including Lord Randyll Tarly, to reaffirm their allegiance to the Iron Throne and not follow House Tyrell in supporting Daenerys. Cersei warns that the Targaryen's Dothraki and Unsullied hordes would pillage their lands and homes, and rape their women. When Lord Tarly points out that Daenerys has three dragons, Qyburn replies that he is "at work on a solution."
Cersei and Qyburn test the ballista.
Later, Qyburn leads Cersei to the dragon skulls beneath the Red Keep. He tells Cersei that his spies have reported that one of Daenerys' dragons was wounded by a spear at Meereen, showing that the dragons are not invincible. Qyburn then displays a ballista and reassures her that they can hurt dragons. Cersei tests the ballista on the nearby skull of Balerion the Black Dread (the dragon of Aegon the Conqueror) and is pleased when the bolt pierces through the massive, hard skull.
Euron returns to the capital with Ellaria and Tyene Sand, the women who poisoned her daughter Myrcella. In recognition of Euron's gesture of good faith, Cersei agrees to Euron's marriage proposal, though only after the war is won, and names him commander of the Iron Throne's naval forces. She is cheered by the attendants in the Throne Room following her success, propagandising her defence as being compromised of the "sons and daughters of Westeros."
Cersei taunts Ellaria.
Cersei has Ellaria and Tyene both chained and gagged in one of the black cells. She tells Ellaria that even though they are enemies, she understands her captive's fury. She calls to mind how skillful a fighter Oberyn was up to the point when he got killed, taunting Ellaria by insinuating Oberyn brought his own death upon himself by taunting Gregor instead of just leaving him to die. She then reveals her own grief at losing her only daughter, and walks over to Tyene, complimenting her beauty before ungagging her and kissing her full on the lips with the very same poison that Ellaria used on Myrcella. Qyburn puts the gag back on Tyene and gives Cersei the antidote.
Cersei tells Ellaria that she intends to keep her alive to watch Tyene die and rot in the cell, even if they have to force feed her.
She then expresses her delight by intimately engaging with Jaime, after which she announces that, as Queen, she doesn't care if servants know of their incest. Then, Bernadette arrives, differing from the subject of Jaime, telling Cersei that Tycho Nestoris of the Iron Bank of Braavos has arrived. Following this she forms an alliance with Tycho, hoping that she will gain a loan after Jaime has successfully taken Highgarden. Tycho agrees to this possibility, as Daenerys has cost them many shares in wealth, due to her ending of slavery in Slaver's Bay.
Tycho and Cersei discuss the Golden Company.
After the Sack of Highgarden, Cersei meets with Tycho, who is pleased that Cersei will use the captured gold to pay off the Iron Throne's massive debts to the bank, and he engages in open flattery by saying that she is as cunning at military strategy as her father Tywin was, if not more so. Now that the Lannisters' old debts will be mostly paid off, and the Iron Bank's faith in them somewhat reassured by their recent military victories, Cersei wants to take out new loans to strengthen her position in the war, so she can finish securing control over the rest of the continent. They discuss that Cersei wants to use the money to hire foreign sellsword companies to bolster the depleted Lannister military ranks. Specifically, she reveals that she has had Qyburn make overtures to hire the best and largest private mercenary army in all of the Free Cities: the Golden Company. Tycho assures her that the Iron Bank will be delighted to help her with these future endeavors, once it receives the gold she is bringing them.
Cersei awaits for Jaime's report.
Jaime returns to King's Landing to inform Cersei of their defeat in the Battle of the Goldroad. He flatly insists that the Lannisters have no chance of defeating Daenerys, even if Cersei were able to buy enough mercenaries to replace their huge losses; Qyburn's scorpion did little more than anger Drogon, and neither the Lannister soldiers nor any mercenaries will be able to match the huge horde of Dothraki, who Jaime notes killed their men as if it were sport to them, not war. Cersei snidely asks Jaime if they are expected to surrender to a Queen whose throne Cersei occupies and whose father Jaime betrayed and murdered, mockingly remarking that Tyrion could intercede for them with Daenerys.
Cersei is told of Olenna's role in Joffrey's murder.
Jaime reveals to Cersei that Tyrion is innocent of Joffrey's murder, telling her Olenna Tyrell confessed to it. Cersei is dismissive, so Jaime talks her through it, asking her rhetorically if Olenna would prefer Margaery to marry the strong willed and sadistic Joffrey or the emotionally pliable and good-natured Tommen. Effectively, Olenna would have become the true ruler of the Seven kingdoms behind the scenes - in the same way that their father Tywin Lannister became the true ruler of Westeros through his grandsons.
Feeling cheated of yet another vengeance, Cersei can barely contain her fury as she laments listening to Jaime, saying Olenna ought to have died screaming. Jaime then points out that such vengence is pointless, with House Tyrell now being extinct, as well as their isolation from anybody else of significance. Cersei then surmises to say that she will fight to the bitter end rather than surrender.
Cersei tells Jaime of her pregnancy.
Cersei and Jaime embrace.
Later, at the Red Keep, Qyburn is visiting Cersei when Jaime enters her chambers. Jaime tells Cersei that he met with Tyrion. When Cersei asks if Daenerys wants to negotiate a surrender, Jaime tells her that Dany is seeking an armistice due to the threat posed by the Army of the Dead. Cersei knows that Bronn secretly organized the meeting between Tyrion and Jaime. Cersei says that perhaps an alliance with Daenerys may be a wiser move, but she still retains her determination to destroy any force that stands against her. She also asks if Jaime plans to punish Bronn for arranging the clandestine meeting with Tyrion. She also reveals that she is pregnant with another of Jaime's children, one who she believes will someday be the heir to the Iron Throne. After reflecting on their late father's advice that "the lion does not concern himself with the opinions of the sheep", Cersei hugs Jaime and whispers in his ear that he is never to betray her again.
As the Dragonpit Summit comes into fruition, Qyburn tells Cersei from her chambers that Daenerys's forces are en route to the Dragonpit. Cersei then warns Gregor that if anything should go wrong, he should kill Daenerys first, followed by Jon and then Tyrion, following then in any order she sees fit, before departing herself.
Cersei arrives at the Dragonpit.
At the Dragonpit, the various factions meet: Cersei, Jaime, Qyburn and Euron representing the Iron Throne, Jon, Davos and Brienne representing the North, and Daenerys' court. When Cersei demands to know where her rival is, the Dragon Queen makes a suitably dramatic entrance on Drogon's back, with Rhaegal flying overhead. Euron tries to posture, threatening to kill Yara unless Theon yields to him and deriding Tyrion's dwarfism; when Tyrion and Theon retort to his taunts with their own, Euron remarks that Tyrion would have been killed at birth in the Iron Islands.
Cersei watches Jon's presentation on the Great War.
A furious Jaime orders Euron to sit down, and when he disregards the warning, Cersei reiterates it; a subdued Euron returns to his seat. Getting the meeting on track, Tyrion, Daenerys, and Jon try to warn Cersei of the greater threat coming for them all, but she dismisses it as a ploy to trick her into lowering her defenses. To prove their claims, Sandor returns with the crate containing the wight, which is worryingly silent. Sandor gets the crate open, but there is still no movement. He finally gives the crate a massive kick, which prompts the enraged wight to launch itself out and charge toward the nearest target - Cersei, appropriately enough.
Visibly horrified, the Lannister queen and her allies recoil in horror as Sandor pulls the wight back on a chain, its claws inches from Cersei's face, and manages to slice the creature in half when it turns to attack him. The assembled look on in shock as the wight's upper half still moves around. Jon steps forward and picks up the wight's discarded hand, using a torch provided by Davos to demonstrate how fire can be used to stop them. He then uses a dragonglass dagger to the heart to end the wight's upper half, bluntly stating that if they don't win the coming war, such a fate awaits every person in Westeros. A horror-struck Jaime asks how many wights are coming, and Daenerys tells him the army of the dead numbers at least 100,000. Euron asks if the wights can swim. When Jon responds, "No," Euron announces to Cersei his intention to withdraw the Iron Fleet back to the Iron Isles. He declares that he has been over the whole world and has never been terrified until now. On his way out, he tells Daenerys to retreat to her island while he returns to his own, and to come find him when they are the only two left alive.
Seemingly convinced, Cersei immediately offers terms: satisfied that Daenerys is concerned with the Army of the Dead, Cersei will not withdraw her troops, but will guarantee that they will not hinder the Targaryen or Northern forces in any way during the battle against the White Walkers. She refuses to deal with Daenerys at all, however, and calls on Jon Snow, as King in the North and Ned Stark's son, to keep the truce and to stay out of any future conflict between Cersei and Daenerys. Jon, however, says that he cannot serve two queens - and reveals to all assembled that he has already declared for Daenerys, infuriating all three Lannisters present. Declaring that there will be no truce if it is just she and Daenerys, Cersei storms out, content to let the Starks and Targaryens battle the undead alone and then deal with whomever emerges victorious from that conflict.
Tyrion later enters Cersei's office, and the two trade savage barbs. Although she finally acknowledges that Tyrion did not kill Joffrey, Cersei blames his murder of Tywin for the series of events that led to her younger children's deaths and the destruction of House Lannister's future. Tyrion maintains that he loved Myrcella and Tommen almost as much as Cersei and that he regrets what happened to them. He attempts to call Cersei's bluff, claiming that if Cersei genuinely blamed him for their deaths, then Gregor should just kill him right then and there. A tense moment passes in which Cersei does not give the order. Relieved, Tyrion heads straight for the wine. They continue their discussion until Tyrion realizes that Cersei is pregnant.
Cersei explains her plot to Jaime.
All three Lannisters then return to the Dragonpit. Cersei has agreed to work with Daenerys, but not by keeping her troops back: the Lannister army will march north to fight alongside the Starks and Targaryens. After the enemy delegation has left, an eager and relieved Jaime meets with his commanders to discuss the logistics of moving the army north. Cersei enters the map room and asks what he is doing. Dismissing the commanders, she tells Jaime he really is the stupidest Lannister. Shocked, Jaime listens as Cersei explains that Euron has not abandoned her, but has gone to Essos to ferry the Golden Company back to Westeros. She intentionally leaked her pregnancy to Tyrion so he would believe her, and now she intends to allow their enemies to exhaust themselves against the Army of the Dead, then have the Golden Company mop up the remnants of whoever is left in the North, conveniently forgetting that if the Dead win, their numbers will increase even more.
Jaime confronts Cersei.
Jaime is furious that his sister and Euron plotted this behind his back, but Cersei angrily accuses him of plotting with Tyrion in favor of her enemies. Reeling from the accusation, Jaime incredulously reminds her that whoever wins the conflict in the North will turn their attention south afterwards; either the White Walkers will march south to kill them, or the Starks and Targaryens will come seeking revenge over the fact Cersei betrayed and left them (and essentially all of Westeros) to die, but Cersei is indifferent.
Cersei watches as Jaime abandons her.
Finally seeing his sister for the manipulative, untrustworthy, power-mad narcissist she truly is, Jaime disgustedly declares that he, at least, will fight to honor the pledge he made. When he tries to leave, he finds his way blocked by Ser Gregor. Cersei furiously insists that she will kill him as a traitor if he tries to leave, but Jaime calls her bluff and storms out, and Cersei does not give the order, unable to kill the only man she ever loved. As she watches Jaime leave, both betrayed and saddened, snow begins to fall on her city, showing that winter has finally reached the south.
Cersei views the Golden Company as she is told of the breaching of the Wall.
Cersei is standing on the ramparts of King's Landing looking at Euron's Iron Fleet when Qyburn brings her the news that the Wall has been breached, as the Golden Company ferry into the bay. She coolly replies "good", and goes to meet the capain of the company, Harry Strickland, who reveals that their elephants are absent due to the length of the voyage. Euron continues to press his suite of marriage, and after much persistence, Cersei allows him to follow her into her chamber. The two have sex, and despite her apparent satisfaction, Cersei calls Euron the most arrogant man she's ever met. When he claims he will make her pregnant and then leaves the room, Cersei's face becomes drawn and pensive.
Cersei orders Missandei's execution.
After Euron informs Cersei about his success in ambushing the Targaryen forces near Dragonstone, she lies to him that she is pregnant with his child. To deter Daenerys from launching an all-out attack, she allows in civilians to enter the Red Keep. During the parley before the battle, she ignores Tyrion's pleas for surrender to Daenerys and has Missandei beheaded.
Cersei's plan, however, backfires as Daenerys has Drogon and her armies slaughter Cersei's forces and the civilians in King's Landing. Cersei spends much of the battle in numb denial as she watches the carnage unfold from the Red Keep, unable to accept that all her planning and efforts were for naught and her fall is inevitable, and there is absolutely nothing she can do to change the outcome.
Cersei reunites with Jaime.
She is initially hesitant to leave the Red Keep, but eventually gives in to Qyburn's suggestion to leave for Maegor's Holdfast. Her Queensguard, however, is either crushed by debris or killed at the hands of Sandor Clegane. Gregor abandons her to fight Sandor, and Qyburn is killed by Gregor when he tries to stop him, causing her to flee alone before both the Clegane brothers fight. The wounded Jaime finally finds her in the war room and they embrace.
The two flee into the cellars, hoping to flee the city on a rowboat and later sail to Pentos, but the exit has been blocked by debris. Cersei cries and begs Jaime not to leave her, pleading she does not want her and their unborn child to die. Jaime hugs her, saying nothing else matters except them. As they embrace for the final time, they are crushed by debris.
Tyrion uncovers Cersei and Jaime's body.
Following the battle, the corpses of both Cersei and Jaime were discovered in the ruins of the Red Keep by Tyrion. She left a hated legacy, with Yara Greyjoy still seeing Daenerys as a savior who freed them from the tyrant queen, despite her massacre of the people in King's Landing.
With Cersei dead, Tyrion is finally free from her threats and persecutions. Also, the deaths of the members of House Tyrell, Kevan and Lancel Lannister, Eddard Stark and Robert Baratheon are finally avenged. In the end, Cersei Lannister was wrong about Tyrion being the one who would destroy House Lannister. It was her own selfishness, jealousy, megalomania and stupidity that caused the destruction of her house and her own death.
Cersei is ruthless, willful, cold, ambitious, and cunning in the sense that she is utterly willing to betray anyone who trusts her, or do anything to protect her own. However, she is also arrogant and self-centered to a fault, which has proven to be one of her greatest weaknesses. While she certainly believes herself to be a master strategist, she is extremely impatient, short-sighted, and prone to displays of poor judgment and poor leadership, resulting in her being both unskilled at manipulating enemies who openly distrust her and incapable of thinking about the long-term consequences of her actions. Cersei's own father Tywin stated to her that he distrusts her because she isn't nearly as intelligent as she believes herself to be. This makes for a dangerous combination, as not only is Cersei not as intelligent as she thinks, but she does not even realize her own limitations.
However, she is not completely devoid of tact. Despite their blatant attempt to deceive her and collect the reward on her brother, Cersei opts not to punish a pair of bounty hunters to avoid discouraging the other hunters from finding Tyrion and acknowledges that mistakes will be made.
Cersei's schemes may work initially, but they have a tendency to backfire on her; this happens because she while has a good amount of tactical ability, she utterly lacks the strategic ability necessary for her role as queen. She was partially successful in her scheme to have Ned Stark falsely confess to treason before exiling him to the Wall in order to keep the North and the Riverlands in line. However, she failed to predict that Joffrey would be so foolish as to start a war by having Ned executed instead. Her scheme to undermine the Tyrells' plot to marry Loras to Sansa backfires on her when Tywin insists that Cersei will marry Loras instead, and coerces the Tyrells into consenting by threatening to have Loras appointed to the Kingsguard if they don't. After Tywin's death, she thinks she can co-opt the Sparrows into undermining the Tyrells, which briefly succeeds by having Loras and then Margaery imprisoned by the Faith Militant, but this plan ultimately backfired on her as well when she too was imprisoned and force to perform a walk of atonement. In this particular case, the combination of Cersei's own ego, as well as her belief that the Sparrows were loyal to her alone, did not allow her to comprehend that the same tactics she used against the Tyrells could also be used against her. Cersei's plan to destroy the Faith Militant and the Tyrells backfires on her as well with the suicide of Tommen, her last living child. Finally, Cersei's scheme to betray the Targaryens and the North after the parley of King's Landing has already backfired somewhat with Jaime abandoning her. Ultimately, it did backfire in the worst possible way, as during the Battle of King's Landing, she completely and utterly lost, all of her scheming was for nothing.
A mistake outsiders, such as Sansa, often make when dealing with Cersei is assuming that Cersei has the dignified personality, emotional maturity, and regal wisdom of a queen, or at least an adult, when her real personality is closer to a petty, petulant, and vindictive child in an adult's body (indeed, Lena Headey has stated that she plays Cersei as having the mind of a wayward 15 year old who never had any real parenting). With her mother dead at a young age and her father away at court (and a cold disciplinarian anyway), Cersei was functionally raised by servants. In public, Cersei often tries to exude a sense of calm and regal control over her surroundings. When things do not go her own way, however, Cersei's usual response is to become childishly flippant, even when the assembled Small Council is trying to give her advice which would genuinely serve her own interests.
On the other hand, Cersei's inability to foresee the full consequences of her plans, combined with the fact that her enemies don't understand this trait of her and don't understand her immaturity neither, gives her an advantage against them: her enemies are unable to guess her plans in time because, unlike her, knowing that such plans would eventually backfire, they assume that she knows it as well and don't expect her to be willing to act in such a foolish way. This, combined also with her ruthlessness, allows her to get rid of the enemies she is facing in short term in a quite easier way, even though at the end she will be damaged too and will be the only one who did not foresee it.
Cersei also has a tendency to irrationally blame other people for problems she actually started herself though her ego won't let her admit otherwise. When Jaime reminds her that the world mustn't know Myrcella really is their daughter, she hypocritically faults him for his caution, saying it led to Joffrey being murdered and Myrcella being sent to Dorne in the first place, even though she was the one who had Joffrey installed on the throne in the first place rather than flee when Ned Stark warned her of his intentions in order to spare her children's lives. Although she later acknowledges that Tyrion did not in fact kill Joffrey, she blames him for the deaths of her other two children by sending Myrcella to Dorne and killing Tywin, an act that she says made the Lannisters vulnerable to their enemies. Again, Cersei forgets that Tyrion's actions were brought on entirely by her own, namely her failure to stop Joffrey from executing Ned and igniting a war, and later irrationally accusing Tyrion for Joffrey's murder. Furthermore she openly ignores that, after their father's death, she was the one who made the mistakes that destabilized more and more the position of their family.
Cersei's behavior is very mercurial, capable of switching between seemingly true affection for someone to extreme loathing over trifles. She is very petty about even small slights, both real and imagined, which ended up being her undoing, for she tried to use the Faith Militant to undermine House Tyrell due to her dislike of Margaery and the fact she replaced her as Queen, only to lose House Tyrell as an ally and find a powerful enemy in the Faith Militant. As Tyrion noted, Cersei often uses her honest feelings to dishonestly manipulate other people. For example, her fear for the safety of her children is actually genuine, but she will shamelessly use this to play on the sympathy of other people, to sway them into supporting her.
Cersei despises the restraints placed on her because she is a woman and is jealous of the freedoms that men have in her society. Several of the noble Houses in the Seven Kingdoms have more liberal attitudes when it comes to involving female members of their family in politics. The women of House Tyrell, for example, are expected to be involved in politics and have thus been trained from a young age in the skills of ruling. Unfortunately, Cersei's father Tywin is a staunch conservative, and never envisioned Cersei playing an active role in politics. Instead, her duty was to cement a marriage alliance and raise royal children, nothing more. It is also possible that instead of her gender being the object, Tywin believes she is simply too impatient and rash. Either way, the practical result is that, right or wrong, Tywin didn't raise Cersei to be skilled in ruling or in political intrigue. While confronted with these shortfalls, Cersei often blames her father or society in general for not giving her the years of training needed to rule, but complaining about it doesn't change the fact that she simply doesn't possess these skills. Although Cersei hates being a woman in Westerosi society, she shows no sympathy towards other women in similar circumstances, scorning them for what she perceives as their weakness: Cersei isn't so much angry at men for mistreating women, as angry that she isn't a man. When she was drunk during the Battle of the Blackwater she even openly said she wished she was born a man.
Cersei's lack of a parental relationship growing up is reflected in how poorly she has served as a mother to her own children, for whom she is unable to act as a stable moral instructor. While she certainly dotes on them, she doesn't genuinely "love" them so much as she treats them as extensions of herself. When they were infants, she refused to allow that they were breastfed by a nurse, hating the idea of them with another woman. She is convinced that she is obsessed with their welfare, but when events threaten to take any of them away from her she is not so much worried about their happiness and well-being as angered that something she feels belongs to her is being taken away.
A smug, calculating Cersei watches as the Sept explodes with innocent people.
Tyrion once observed that Cersei's love for her children is her one obvious redeeming quality - but she even managed to twist this into a negative. Cersei doesn't really "love" her children so much as she is obsessed with her mental constructs of them. She spent Joffrey's entire childhood convinced that he was going to grow up to be the best king ever, wise and brave - to the point that she blinded herself to his obviously psychopathic behavior. However, in spite of her obvious favoritism and far from realistic conception of her son, she at least acknowledged that Joffrey was indeed a monster after his death, implying she wasn't as deluded as she appeared. Her overindulgence of Joffrey also spoiled him rotten, filling him with an insatiable sense of entitlement - nor did he particularly give her much respect in return. Meanwhile, Cersei seems oblivious to the fact that she ignored her two younger children, Myrcella and Tommen. While Cersei is constantly upset that her own father Tywin played favorites with his children and focused all of his attention on her brother Jaime, she hypocritically visited the same treatment on her own children. She fixated on Joffrey so much that she barely knew Myrcella and Tommen, rarely engaging them in conversation except when she needed to manipulate them. After Myrcella was sent away to Dorne in a marriage-alliance, Cersei assumed she was suffering away from her family, not suspecting that Myrcella would actually find happiness once she was free from Cersei's control and not even want to come back to her. After spending some years in Dorne away from her, Myrcella outright said that Cersei doesn't even know her. Finally, after the destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor, Cersei tells a captured Unella, she was motivated by protecting her last living child, Tommen. However, Cersei once again proves what a poor parent she is by not going immediately to Tommen after his wife is killed in the explosion and preventing his suicide as she was too preoccupied with paying back Unella for imprisoning and humiliating her. In the end, Cersei kept her children close to herself more than most of other Westeros' noblewomen did with theirs, but still she managed to not truly know them and to, indirectly, cause their death; even her fourth child with Jaime could have lived if Cersei had accepted her defeat instead of foolishly refuse to surrender. All this happened because what Cersei loved the most were herself and, especially, power, so she never actually thought, or maybe cared, about how much her pursuing of it would have endangered her children before it was too late, and still, even after losing them one after the other, she never accepted her responsibility nor learned from her mistakes until she died herself with her unborn child.
After she was humiliated by the Faith Militant, the megalomania, immorality and vengefulness Cersei possessed all her life reached its peak. Combined with the rage she felt for her uncle Kevan and the fact that Olenna Tyrell and Pycelle deprived her of power, Cersei began plotting with Qyburn to avoid her trial, simultaneously destroy her enemies, including the High Sparrow and Queen Margaery and gain her revenge on the faith militant.This ended up destroying the alliance with the Tyrells, the only effective ally to King's Landing and a bloody revolt is to be expected by a vindictive Olenna. Cersei, however, does not seem concerned regarding this, displaying much more recklessness and slight mental imbalance on her part. Despite declaring herself Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, the title is effectively meaningless as currently the only major houses supporting her are her own and the Freys, although with the death of Walder Frey as well as the Freys' apparent military incompetence, they are unlikely to be useful allies. Along with the Lannisters now pitted against the rest of the great houses of Westeros, there is also the matter of the Crown's debt to the Iron Bank which has still not been resolved. So while Cersei might have achieved her ultimate ambition of being crowned Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, she is still in an incredibly precarious situation. However, this appears lost on her, further demonstrating her inability to see the far-reaching consequences of her actions.
Beforehand, Cersei was known to have an extremely thinly-veiled sense of morality, which can be attributed to her love for her own children, no matter how twisted it was. Now that Tommen, Joffrey and Myrcella are all dead, however, Cersei has begun displaying more ruthlessness and depravity in her convictions. Her use of wildfire to destroy the Great Sept of Baelor can be considered somewhat of a symbolic envoi to her own descent into the same level of tyranny as the the Mad King. This act also destroyed the area surrounding the Great Sept for half a mile, effectively murdering hundreds of innocent people. Ironically, this may serve to drive a wedge between her and Jaime; Jaime outright said that the only thing he cares about is Cersei and that he was willing to kill even children if it reunited them, but Cersei has committed an act similar to the one he had to kill the Mad King for. Jaime's grim look upon returning to King's Landing and witnessing her coronation means that he understands that she is becoming exactly like him.
Regarding her own crimes, Cersei appears to have become shamelessly sadistic. She outwardly admits that all her actions from having Robert killed to having an incestuous relationship with Jaime was solely because she enjoyed doing so. This, she "confesses" to a helpless Unella while vengefully playing with her, even quietly chanting "shame" (in a similar sense that Unella did during her walk of atonement) before leaving her to be tortured by Gregor Clegane. She also used her own motherly emotions for sadistic purposes when facing off with Ellaria Sand, going so far as to kill Ellaria's daughter Tyene with the same exact method which had been used to kill Myrcella. In the same scene, she vividly recalled Prince Oberyn's death to Ellaria, and pointed out that Oberyn died in vain since Gregor Clegane was still alive and stronger than ever before.
All of this points to another mistake outsiders often make, Ned Stark for example, when dealing with Cersei as Olenna Tyrell noted before her death: failure to imagine just how far Cersei is willing to go to keep her power.
Cersei has been cited by Tyrion to be one of the most dangerous people in Westeros, because of her absolute ruthlessness in the face of those she perceives as her enemies. Cersei maintains a major amount of hypocrisy, blaming Tyrion for the destabilization of her family, and blind to the fact that she was an almost central influence in the deaths of Tommen and Myrcella, and showing no sympathy whatsoever when Tyrion apologizes but cites Tywin's own cruelty towards him - the hypocrisy here is that Cersei herself has complained about Tywin's mistreatment of her, and outright threatened to 'burn [her] house to the ground' if she were separated from her children (the latter being hopelessly ironic because Cersei accuses Tyrion of decimating the position of House Lannister, where she at least contemplated it herself). In addition, Cersei was a supreme influence in the arrest of Ned Stark (since she installed Joffrey on the Iron Throne rather than leave King's Landing when Ned warned her of his intentions in order to spare her children's lives), Tyrion's arrest (since it began with Bran Stark finding her having sex with Jaime), and giving free reign for Joffrey to do as he wanted and being unable to control him (which led to the death of Eddard Stark), making her an almost undisputed influence in the War of the Five Kings, which led to her family's decimation.
Cersei has also become increasingly more arrogant and callous with her ascension to queen, disrespecting Jaime as the stupidest Lannister, having seen his logical and sound keeping of his promise as a betrayal. Perceiving this betrayal, Cersei feigns a threat with Ser Gregor, but Jaime knowing his sister so well as he does, calls it out. But the feelings of hurt are still the same. Cersei expresses her need to protect their new child by allowing the enemies to eliminate each other. By all logical guesses, it looks as if she is mimicking what Tywin Lannister had done during the end of Robert's Rebellion where he camped out and waited until the end game to see what he could do with what was left, even though it's clear that her situation was much different from Tywin's because, at the end of the war she had kept herself out from, the winner then would surely have gone to her more dangerous than before or, however, eager for revenge for her betrayal. Cersei Lannister's character has always been what it has always been about: being a mother and ensuring the survival of the ones she loves, and that is her children and her lover, Jaime Lannister. Her behavior reinforces the belief that she has stated since the very beginning, that when you play the game of thrones, you win, or you die, and there is no middle ground. Unfortunately for her, Cersei lacked the ability to win this play for a long time so, at the end, her game of thrones ended with her tragic and inglorius death.
During the Battle of King's Landing, Cersei's true nature comes forth; a weak, fearful, delusional and tearful woman that is in no control of her actions and with her death so close, she becomes more afraid and sad, as she drowns in her own tears with only her brother as comfort until the end.
* Only appears as a corpse
Actress Lena Headey became pregnant just before Season 1 began filming. However, the production team was so enthusiastic about her performance, and the larger scale concern of having Headey play Cersei for several years, that they didn't recast the role but instead worked around her pregnancy by, for example, keeping the camera frame above her waist or having her sit at a table. For wide shots when Cersei is walking around, notice that most of Cersei's costumes in Season 1 have large billowing sleeves which she carries in front of her to hide her pregnancy. At other times, body doubles were shot from behind in quick-cuts. This may also explain why Cersei's sex scene with Jaime isn't as involved as it is in the books, in which they are both completely naked and have an extended conversation intermixed with lovemaking. In the TV series, Cersei and Jaime are mostly clothed, with Jaime simply pulling her dress up, and Jaime is taking her from behind, so the viewer can't see that the actress is pregnant.
The TV producers actually made it a point never to show Cersei naked since the beginning of the TV series, even during sex scenes, specifically to make it more shocking when her penance walk would occur years later (ultimately in Season 5's "Mother's Mercy"). Just before Season 4 aired, Lena Headey spoke about the upcoming scene in such a way that it vaguely seemed like she was considering performing it herself, but ultimately model Rebecca Van Cleave was used as a body double, and Lena's head was digitally added onto Van Cleave's body. Why Headey ultimately used a body double is unclear: one  explanation circulated was it was because Headey was pregnant, though the scene was shot in early October 2014 and Headey gave birth on July 10 the following year, making it unlikely that she was pregnant during filming.
Headey later revealed that the reason she didn't do the nude scene herself is because she felt she wouldn't be able to stay in-character: Cersei is supposed to make the entire penance walk with an utterly stoic face, but Headey felt she could not restrain herself from reacting to the crowd as extras would also be flinging filth and insults at her during the entire sequence, when it is explicitly important that the character doesn't react.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Cersei is a beautiful but cold woman who does not get along with her husband, whom she considers to be a fat oaf. However, she dotes on and loves her three children. She is not politically skilled, and frustrated that her options for power are limited by her gender. Cersei is close to her brother Jaime, but is cowed by her father and despises Tyrion, whom she unjustly blames for killing her mother Joanna, who died giving birth to him. Cersei and Jaime were around 10 years old when Tyrion was born and Joanna died. In the series, it is mentioned that Cersei was 4 instead, a change which better reflects the relative ages of the actors (Peter Dinklage is four years older than Lena Headey).
Cersei becomes a POV character in the fourth novel. In the first three novels, her actions are witnessed and interpreted from the POV of other characters, mainly her brothers, Eddard and Sansa Stark.
According to the novels, Cersei never gave birth to any child by Robert. As she revealed to Eddard, she was only pregnant by Robert once and aborted the child out of hatred for its father. Robert was unaware of both the pregnancy and the abortion. In the TV series, she revealed to Catelyn that she'd had a "beautiful, black-haired boy", but he'd died of a fever.
Tywin does plan to find a new husband for Cersei, though not Loras Tyrell, who has been made a Kingsguard after the battle of the Blackwater. Willas Tyrell, Mace's eldest son and heir (who does not appear in the TV series), is Tywin's first choice. However, Olenna Tyrell vetoes the match in revenge for the Lannisters foiling her plot to marry Sansa to Willas, claiming that Cersei is "too old and too used" for her precious grandson. Prince Oberyn Martell and Balon Greyjoy are also suggested as a match. Cersei never threatens her father with revealing Tommen's true parentage if she is forced to re-marry; she does object, exclaiming that she is not a brood mare, but Tywin firmly tells her that she will marry and breed in order to refute the rumor Stannis spread about her incest (which she did). Grudgingly, Cersei asks for a few days to consider that. As things turn to be, Tywin dies before Cersei is forced to marry anyone.
With her father dead, Cersei once more rules the Seven Kingdoms as Queen Regent. She grows increasingly paranoid and vindictive, drinks heavily and endlessly schemes to deal with her enemies, real and imagined (Margaery, Jon Snow, Bronn, Trystane Martell, etc.). All of Cersei's schemes, with no exception, somehow go wrong - foiled, backfire or never come to fruition; even those that initially succeed - turn to be too costly.
During her reign, Cersei becomes alcoholic, and takes lovers of both genders, among them Osney Kettleblack and Lady Taena Merryweather, both characters of questionable loyalty. Jaime, who has been growing more and more distant from Cersei, is disgusted by her behavior; he finds it ironic that she has adopted the same negative habits she hated so much about Robert.
Cersei's paranoia increases rapidly, so much that she interprets every statement, causal comment or even a smile as a plot against her. For instance: Kevan advises her to appoint either Randyll Tarly or Mathis Rowan as Tommen's Hand, since they are able and loyal; however, since both are the Tyrells' bannermen, Cersei hastily concludes that her uncle is a traitor, bought by the Tyrells to act against her - which is a totally wrong conclusion.
Cersei is annoyed at the Tyrells due to their nonstop demands, among them to wed Margaery to Tommen so soon after Joffrey's death. As time passes, Cersei's annoyance gradually turns into mistrust, and then to paranoia: she becomes convinced that the Tyrells, Margaery in particular, are plotting against her, have conspired with Tyrion to kill Joffrey and maybe her father too (she does not suspect Littlefinger at all). Her suspicions are fueled when a gold Highgarden coin is found in the cell of a jailer named Rugen (in fact, Varys in disguise), who disappeared the night Tyrion escaped; that makes her suspect the Tyrells - not Jaime - helped Tyrion escape by bribing the guards, and confirms her former suspicions about them. She has nightmares about Tyrion and thinks he is still hiding in the walls of the Red Keep, planning to kill her and her children. Until now, her obsessive hatred for Tyrion has effectively blinded her to the presence of her true enemies, believing that anything and everything that happens to her family was somehow Tyrion's doing (including the attempt of Gerold "Darkstar" Dayne to kill Myrcella – the end result of a plot instigated by a rogue member of House Martell who was actually trying to help Myrcella), and this obsession only grows after Tyrion kills Tywin.
Cersei soon makes a number of rash and ill-judged decisions. She fills the Small Council with her own cronies, picked for their loyalty to her rather than their competence, disregarding Tywin's previous arrangements and advice from Jaime and others. Despite the Crown's heavy debts, she orders the construction of a new Royal Fleet (rather than rely on the fleet of Paxter Redwyne, a bannerman of Mace Tyrell, or make an alliance with the Greyjoys to replace the few ships that survived the Battle of the Blackwater) and puts it under the command of Aurane Waters, a bastard sellsail of questionable loyalty and experience, who later steals the entire fleet. She refuses to honor the Crown's debt to the Iron Bank of Braavos and flippantly brushes off its representatives when they demand an explanation. In retaliation, the Iron Bank begins calling in loans all over Westeros, causing economic chaos, and eventually sends a representative to Stannis Baratheon to offer to finance him. In return for cancelling the Crown's debts to the Faith, she allows the Faith Militant to be re-established, oblivious to the strife they had caused the Targaryens centuries earlier. Pycelle, who previously was Cersei's henchman, keeps arguing and objecting to her poor decisions, but his protests fall on deaf ears.
She offers her uncle Kevan the position of Hand of the King, which he agrees, on the condition that he also be named Regent and that Cersei removes herself from King's Landing and, just like Tywin wanted, returns to Casterly Rock and re-marries. Cersei is infuriated and a fierce argument takes place during which she threatens Kevan. As he leaves, Kevan calls her an unfit mother, and hints that he knows Jaime fathered her children. In response, she throws her wine in his face. Out of spite, Cersei then names two Lannister cousins Warden of the West and Castellan of Casterly Rock, respectively, instead of Kevan. She ignores the advice of Kevan and Jaime to appoint a capable and respected man like Randyll Tarly or Mathis Rowan as Hand, choosing instead the weak and compliant Harys Swyft.
Cersei's paranoia also leads to her plotting to have Jon Snow killed, fearing that as Ned Stark's (presumed) last surviving son, he may rally the Night's Watch against the Lannisters; that plot is never realized, though. She also places a bounty on Tyrion, promising a lordship to whoever brings her his head, which leads to the deaths of many dwarfs and even ordinary children on both sides of the Narrow Sea. Cersei refuses to publicly punish anyone who kills an innocent, however, fearing that doing so will discourage other bounty hunters and allow Tyrion to escape.
Cersei's actions alienate Jaime, who wants nothing to do with the increasing brutality and rampant cronyism of her reign, and flatly tells his sister she's seeing enemies where none exist and turning what few allies she has left against her. Watching how Cersei treats Tommen, Jaime - similarly to his father and uncle - thinks she is totally incompetent as a mother and fears she will corrupt their son into another Joffrey. Jaime is also haunted by Tyrion's revelation that Cersei has been cheating on him with Lancel Lannister and Osmund Kettleblack, amongst others. Some time later, Lancel tells Jaime the truth about his affair with Cersei and his part in Robert's death, thus confirming Tyrion's words; moreover, Jaime realizes that Cersei is responsible not only for Robert's murder, but also for the murder of the previous High Septon, what increases the deep loathing he already feels toward her.
In the books, after Tywin dies, Cersei becomes the new head of House Lannister, but she appoints lesser cousins to other titles Tywin held: Daven Lannister (son of Stafford Lannister) is made the new Warden of the West, and even more distant cousin Damion Lannister is named castellan of Casterly Rock (Cersei is Lady of the castle, but she isn't there to rule it directly). No mention was made in the corresponding Season 5 of the TV series about exactly who holds the titles that Tywin used to hold - possibly implying that Cersei is the new Wardeness, but this awaits clarification.
Instead of having Loras Tyrell arrested by the Faith on charges of homosexuality, Cersei sends him to capture Dragonstone, hoping he will die in the attempt due to his rashness; he is fatally injured but somehow clings to life by the point the books reached. Cersei also orders her lover Osney Kettleblack to seduce Margaery, in a scheme to bring about Margaery's downfall. When he fails to do so, Cersei compiles a long, dubious, list of individuals Margaery has supposedly slept with; she tortures the Blue Bard, a young singer in service with House Tyrell, into "confessing", and has Kettleblack sent to the High Septon to confess. Margaery is arrested, but the plot backfires when the High Septon grows suspicious of Kettleblack's confession and has him tortured. Kettleblack then admits the truth: that he never touched Margaery but he has been sleeping with Cersei, and that he killed the previous High Septon on her orders.
Cersei's stupidity is underscored by the fact that even the unworthy people she has recently appointed to the Small Council - who mainly act as sycophants - are aware of the dangerous applications of Margaery's arrest. They express their concern that, due to Margaery's popularity and her family's military strength, the smallfolk will riot and Mace will storm King's Landing. Cersei, smug about her "victory", is not worried, but agrees that some precautions must be taken. Of course, she could have figured the consequences of her poorly developed schemes in advance, had she thought it over.
Cersei is arrested by the High Sparrow on charges of high treason, fornication, incest, regicide, deicide and adultery. She confesses only the lesser charges - sleeping with Lancel and others, claiming she did that only after Robert's death (namely that she's guilty of fornication, but not of adultery); she denies all the other charges and demands a trial by combat, though she soon realizes that her choices for a champion are limited, since as the acting Queen, her champion must be a Kingsguard. She writes to Jaime, pleading for help; Jaime, who has grown to hate Cersei and even considers killing her, ignores her letter, since he knows she's guilty of all the crimes she is charged with. She's allowed to return to the Red Keep by walking naked through the streets of King's Landing, while being jeered by the crowd. Once she arrives, she's met by Qyburn, who introduces her to Ser Robert Strong (a re-animated Gregor Clegane), the newest member of the Kingsguard who will serve as her champion.
Following the walk of atonement - in sharp contrast to the show - Cersei is stripped of all power and authority, and is practically confined to her chambers. She loses her seat at the Small Council; all her henchmen are either deposed, imprisoned or flee away. All her guards are replaced by Kevan's men; her former ladies-in-waiting are replaced by a septa and three novices who watch her all the time, selected by the High Septon, with an additional precaution that they are to be replaced every week, lest Cersei corrupts them. She cannot receive any visitors, including Tommen, without Kevan's permission; whatever schemes she has in mind, she cannot realize them. Qyburn is the only one who remains loyal to her. Kevan intends to return her to Casterly Rock after the trial (if she's not executed) and see that she remains there, unable to take part both in the governance of the realm and in Tommen's education, while he and the new appointed Small Council members take steps to repair the damages she caused.
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Cersei Lannister" is pronounced "SER-see LAN-iss-ter."
Queen Margaery Tyrell was the only daughter of Lord Mace Tyrell and Lady Alerie Tyrell, granddaughter of Lady Olenna Tyrell and sister of Ser Loras Tyrell. Margaery became Queen Consort through her marriage to King Joffrey Baratheon, and later his younger brother, King Tommen Baratheon, following Joffrey's death. However, a charge of perjury and a false dedication to the Sparrow movement led to her downfall as she was eventually killed along with her brother and father when the Great Sept of Baelor was destroyed with wildfire as orchestrated by Cersei Lannister to reclaim her lost power.
Margaery is the only daughter of Lady Alerie Tyrell and Lord Mace Tyrell, the Lord Paramount of the Reach. The Reach is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Tyrell is one of the Great Houses of the realm. Margaery was raised in privilege in the family seat and regional capital of Highgarden. She is close to her brother, Ser Loras Tyrell, the Knight of Flowers. She is said to be as beautiful as she is clever.
Renly hosts a tournament, with Margaery at his side.
Margaery marries King Renly Baratheon, the lover of her brother Loras, though she's aware of their relationship. Two weeks afterward they have not yet consummated their marriage. Renly camps his army in the Stormlands, near his seat of Storm's End, and holds a tournament for his followers. Margaery is disappointed when Loras is defeated in the final bout by Brienne of Tarth. Catelyn Stark arrives to treat with Renly on behalf of her son Robb Stark and Margaery greets her warmly. Margaery encourages Renly to produce an heir with her but he is unable to become aroused by her. She is pragmatic about his desires and shocks him by offering to bring Loras into their bed.
Margaery and Loras mourn Renly.
King Joffrey Baratheon's Master of Coin Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish also visits the camp to treat with Renly. He makes a point of provoking Margaery about her husband's sexuality and she affirms her loyalty to Renly. Renly treats with his brother King Stannis Baratheon but is unable to reach a compromise. Renly is killed in mysterious circumstances and his Kingsguard Brienne of Tarth is blamed for his death. Margaery convinces Loras to flee the camp with her before Stannis arrives. Littlefinger accompanies them to Highgarden having gauged Margaery's ambition to become queen. Petyr sways House Tyrell into siding with House Lannister. As a result, House Lannister is victorious at the Battle of the Blackwater.
Margaery is proposed to be wed to Joffrey.
In a ceremony to celebrate victory, King Joffrey tells Loras he may ask anything of him in return for his aid. He asks Joffrey to wed Margaery to cement the new alliance between their Houses through matrimony. Margaery states she has heard of Joffrey's courage and come to love him from afar. Joffrey states that he has heard of Margaery's beauty and reciprocates her feelings but balks at setting aside his betrothal to Sansa Stark. He is convinced by his courtiers that Sansa's family's status as attainted traitors is reason enough.
Against royal protocol, Margaery visits Flea Bottom.
Margaery, accompanied her betrothed King Joffrey, returns from the Great Sept of Baelor in a heavily guarded palanquin. Against official protocol, she stops the procession in Flea Bottom unexpectedly. To the shock of her guards and the bewilderment of Joffrey, Margaery steps out of her carriage and began exploring the streets, despite the warnings of danger and lack of hygiene from her handmaiden.
Margaery earns the love of the smallfolk.
She eventually arrives at an orphanage and begins interacting with the children. Meanwhile, her servants distribute bread and toys, earning her the love of Flea Bottom's smallfolk. That evening, Margaery and her brother Loras Tyrell dine Joffrey and his mother, Cersei Lannister. Cersei is unhappy with Margaery's earlier actions and admonished her boldness; reminding her that her impromptu charity work took place on the same streets where the royal party was assaulted weeks earlier. During this argument, Joffrey defends Margaery and criticizes his mother. As a result, Cersei realizes that Margaery is adept at winning the hearts and minds of her people, a skill which Cersei lacks.
Margaery and Olenna dine with Sansa.
Later, Margaery and her grandmother, Lady Olenna Tyrell, invites Sansa for a private meeting with them at the gardens of King’s Landing. Loras escorts Sansa to the gardens for the meeting. During the meeting, Lady Olenna dismisses Mace as a fool for supporting Renly Baratheon's claim to the throne. By contrast, Margaery speaks well of her late husband.
Margaery and Olenna question Sansa about Joffrey.
During the meeting, Olenna insists that Sansa tell them the truth about what Joffrey was like since Margaery is to marry him. While Sansa is initially reluctant to share her feelings, she admits that Joffrey is a "monster" since he had reneged on his earlier promise to spare her father’s life. While Olenna is disappointed at these revelations, she is not surprised given the rumors that have been circulating about Joffrey's public outbursts. While Sansa is worried that this would mean that the Tyrells would cancel their proposed marriage alliance (meaning Sansa will be stuck with Joffrey again), Olenna assures her that her son Mace is too intent on Margaery entering into a royal marriage to cancel it for anything.
Margaery attempts to appeal to Joffrey's sadistic inclinations.
Later, Margaery is summoned to Joffrey's chambers to see if she needs anything before he leaves on a hunting trip. While Joffrey has previously been easy for Margaery to manipulate, Cersei was apparently able to plant one seed of doubt in his mind; the fact that Margaery was married to his uncle Renly (and thus, already had sex with another man), whom Cersei described as a "traitor and known degenerate."
When questioned, Margaery says that she was ordered to marry a traitor as her family duty, but Joffrey implies that this still means he must have had sex with her. Joffrey angrily questions Margaery about the relationship and she delicately placates him by feigning demure shyness and painting herself as a dutiful, but frustrated, bride. She uses the rumors about Renly's homosexuality to redirect Joffrey's anger, stating that Renly always found excuses to avoid sex, but, in one instance, drunkenly suggested "something that sounded very painful and could not possibly result in children", which draws her new fiance's sympathy.
Joffrey teaches Margaery with the newly designed crossbow.
Joffrey tells Margaery he had considered making Renly's perversion punishable by death. Margaery eventually manages to divert attention to the new custom crossbow Joffrey's had made for his excursion. It quickly becomes apparent that Joffrey is excited by violence and sadism, so she flirts with him by complimenting the crossbow and musing about killing something herself. Easily played, Joffrey offers to take her with him to share in the excitement of killing something.
Joffrey gives Margaery a tour of the Great Sept of Baelor.
Later, Joffrey gives Margaery a tour of the Great Sept of Baelor, where their royal wedding is scheduled to be held. They are accompanied by Cersei and Olenna. During their tour, Joffrey talks about the various Targaryen kings who were buried within the Great Sept. Margaery feigns interest in Joffrey's topic but his mother Cersei is annoyed. Cersei then tries to dissuade Margaery, suggesting that the deceased Targaryens the two are discussing are a macabre subject. However, Margaery insists that she finds the historical aspect fascinating. She then tells Joffrey that she is glad that the tombs are preserved, and although she understands the actions of Aerys were unforgivable, she also believes the Targaryens were great artistic patrons.
Joffrey and Margaery wave at the pleased crowd.
While Cersei and Olenna were engrossed in a conversation about the men in their lives, Margaery manages to convince Joffrey to greet the crowd outside. Having been somewhat placated by Margaery's charity, the crowd happily cheers for the pair. As a result of this incident, Cersei feels that she had lost control of Joffrey to the Tyrells. She comes to fear that the Tyrells do not have her family’s interest at heart. In response, the Queen Regent orders Littlefinger to spy on the Tyrells.
Margaery fills Sansa's head with thoughts of Highgarden (and Loras).
Margaery Tyrell later finds Sansa Stark praying in the godswood, dismisses the Lannister guards and engages in pleasant small-talk. Margaery plays a small joke on Sansa by saying that her cousin died of a pox which made her face melt off, but is just trying to brighten her spirits. Margaery then invites Sansa to visit Highgarden in the Reach someday. Sansa believes that Cersei won't allow her to leave the city, but Margaery wryly points out that Margaery's authority will take precedence when she is Queen. Margaery points out that if Sansa were to marry Loras, then she would belong in Highgarden anyway. The thought of this makes Sansa choke out tears of joy.
Later, Ser Loras invites Margaery and Sansa to watch him sparring with his squire in the castle gardens. During that time, Sansa praises Loras's swordsmanship and expressed her interest in marrying Loras, something the Tyrells have been plotting to keep her from being used by Baelish or the Lannisters, and to bring the North under the control of House Tyrell, instead of their opponents. Margaery replies that she would "plant the seed" of the idea after she and Joffrey marry. While Sansa is skeptical that Joffrey would let her go, Margaery is confident that he would do it to please his betrothed. Unknown to Margaery and Sansa, Ser Loras later engages in a sexual encounter with his squire Olyvar.
During this meeting, Loras briefly mentions that he is to be married to Sansa. Unknown to Loras, Olyvar is a spy working for Littlefinger, who in turn reports to Cersei. In response, Cersei's father Lord Tywin Lannister arranges for Cersei and her brother Tyrion Lannister to marry Loras and Sansa, respectively, in order to curb the ambitions of House Tyrell and to bolster the marriage alliance between the Lannisters of Casterly Rock and the Tyrells of Highgarden.
Sansa and Margaery discuss her engagement to Tyrion.
While Sansa is unhappy about this arranged marriage to a Lannister, Margaery consoles Sansa by reminding her that Tyrion was far from the worst Lannister, and that Tyrion might be able to make her happy given his skills as a lover. Later, Margaery also attends Sansa and Tyrion's wedding. Prior to the wedding reception, she attempts to ingratiate herself with Cersei, commenting that they will technically be sisters soon. However, Cersei rebuffs her friendship by telling Margaery about the story behind "The Rains of Castamere."
Cersei threatens Margaery with the destruction of House Reyne.
She explains that the song refers to House Lannister's destruction of the rebellion of House Reyne of Castamere. This is meant to imply similarities between the ambitions and position of Houses Reyne and Tyrell and that the same fate may fall upon House Tyrell if they plot against the Lannisters. Cersei also threatens to have Margaery strangled in her sleep if she ever dares to call Cersei sister again. During the wedding dinner, Margaery is seated with her grandmother Olenna, who talks about what the dynamics of the Lannister and Tyrell families will be after Loras married Cersei, with Margaery shooting her grandmother a withering glare when Loras storms out.
Olenna and Margaery prepare for her wedding.
Olenna assists Margaery in picking out a necklace for her upcoming wedding. She selects the finest of those on offer, noting affectionately that it is similar to one she received from Margaery's grandfather on her 51st name day. Olenna chucks the piece over the rampart and into Blackwater Bay and orders the Tyrell handmaidens to canvass every jeweler in King's Landing for better offerings.
Brienne tells Margaery about Renly's death at the hands of Stannis.
After they are left alone, Margaery sardonically suggests letting Joffrey pick out the necklace, which knowing him will likely consist of severed sparrow's heads. Olenna cautions Margaery to mind what she says, even with her. They are shortly interrupted by Brienne of Tarth, who has come to speak with Margaery about Renly's death. In private, Brienne explains what she saw and how the shadow had Stannis's face, and assures Margaery that she will find a way to avenge their king. Margaery reminds Brienne that Joffrey is their king, now. Brienne apologizes for any offense given, but Margaery assures her that none was taken.
Joffrey and Margaery are married.
Margaery's wedding to Joffrey goes off without a hitch. At the wedding feast, however, Joffrey's cruelty and twisted sense of humor become apparent in the tasteless performance of the War of the Five Kings he has performed and in his treatment of his uncle Tyrion. Margaery is only barely able to distract him, proving her control over him is fleeting. Everything is cut short, however, when Joffrey is poisoned and dies in front of Margaery's eyes.
Margaery "mourns" for Joffrey.
As the capital is in "mourning", Margaery inquires to Olenna if she is actually the queen or not. Her grandmother tells her she is more so a queen now than she ever was with Renly, but the lack of consummation in both circumstances limits her authority. Nevertheless, advises her to not press the issue just yet. She tells Margaery of how she felt when Luthor Tyrell died, but also says that Margaery is at least lucky that her third marriage should be easier than the other two. Margaery is surprised by this, but Olenna points out that the Lannisters need their alliance with the Tyrells far more than they do.
Olenna hints at her involvement in Joffrey's murder to Margaery.
Margaery learns, to her disappointment, that Olenna intends to return to Highgarden before Tommen's coronation. Her grandmother tells her that she should be able to handle things herself from this point. Before she leaves, Olenna tells her about how she seduced Luthor Tyrell to get out of her engagement to a Targaryen, and advises Margaery to make her move on Tommen while Cersei is still distracted over Joffrey's murder. Margaery is confused by Olenna's certainty that Tyrion is innocent, until Olenna makes it clear that she would never have allowed Margaery to marry "that beast", heavily implying that it was she who poisoned Joffrey.
Margaery secretly visits Tommen.
Later that night, Margaery steals into Tommen's bedchamber, apparently easily sneaking past the Kingsguard. She discusses rumors of their upcoming wedding with him and interacts in a friendly manner with his cat, Ser Pounce. Margaery and Tommen bond over their relief that they won't have to live in fear of Joffrey anymore. Margaery asks if she can visit him again in secret; Tommen agrees. Realizing that she must be maternal in her initial manipulation of him, Margaery gives him a kiss on the forehead as she leaves.
Cersei questions Margaery on her queenship.
Still dressed in mourning clothes, Margaery watches Tommen's coronation from the side gallery of the great hall. Cersei approaches her and engages her in conversation. To Margaery's surprise, Cersei says that the things Joffrey did shocked her, then asks rhetorically if Margaery thinks many things shock her. Cersei asks if Margaery still wants to be the queen, to which the lady replies that she hasn't thought about it. Cersei ignores the obvious lie and says that Tommen will need someone to guide him; apparently, she doesn't have the will to fight about Margaery being that someone anymore. Cersei and Tywin later set the date of Margaery and Tommen's wedding to right after the mourning period is over, a fortnight from the coronation.
Margaery silently watches as Tyrion defends himself.
Along with her brother and father (who is one of the three judges), Margaery is present at the trial of Tyrion Lannister. Although she wasn't close to Tyrion, she looks visibly displeased at the proceedings, well aware that Tyrion is innocent and the trial is a farce. Nonetheless, Margaery remains silent throughout the trial. Guiltily, knowing that her grandmother is the real conspirator, Margaery watches as the trial goes awry and Tyrion demands a trial by combat.
Margaery, along with lords and ladies from all over the Seven Kingdoms, stands on the Great Sept of Baelor as Cersei Lannister arrives to mourn the loss of her father. During the reception at the Red Keep afterwards, Cersei notices her exchanging a few close words with Tommen and holding his hand briefly. Later on, Margaery interrupts Loras as he is in bed with Olyvar. Irritated at her brother's lack of discretion, she dismisses Olyvar. Loras is puzzled by Margaery's relaxed attitude, as Tywin's death means Cersei won't be forced to marry Loras and be sent off with him to Highgarden, which means Margaery will have to contend with her mother-in-law at the capital. Margaery implies that may not be the case.
Tommen and Margaery are wed.
Tommen and Margaery are finally wed, much to the dismay of Cersei. That night, they consummate their marriage. They are elated and discuss their future together. Tommen tells Margaery how he thinks that his mother is unhappy in King's Landing. Seeing an opportunity to get rid of Cersei, Margaery manipulates Tommen into thinking that as long as Cersei stays in King’s Landing, she will continue to treat him like a child, like a mother lioness watching over her cub.
Margaery demeans Cersei.
When Tommen tries to convince his mother to leave King's Landing, Cersei deduces that this is Margaery’s doing and pays her a visit, only to find Margaery busy gloating about her “exhausting” night with the King. Greeting her new mother-in-law, Margaery, now more confident than ever and even dressing like Cersei, rubs her queenship and marriage in Cersei’s face, getting less subtle with each barb. Seeing herself losing, Cersei walks away. Margaery and her entourage laugh following her exit.
Margaery confronts Tommen following Loras's arrest.
Later, however, Margaery becomes angry when her brother is arrested by the Faith Militant. She confronts Tommen, who eventually claims that his mother was not responsible and there was no way to free Loras without bloodshed, but Margaery, who has much more court and political experience than Tommen, is perfectly aware that Cersei played a role in her brother's arrest in order to divide her and Tommen. She subsequently decides to write to Olenna for help.
Margaery is arrested for perjury.
Olenna arrives shortly after and speaks with Margaery, sharing her belief that even though the Faith Militant arrested Loras, Cersei was the true mastermind. Later, at Loras's Holy Inquest, Margaery is called to testify and she backs her brother's denial towards the charges against him. However, Olyvar is called in to give testimony, though it is clear he has been instructed by Cersei. He confirms the accusations against Loras, who is to be put on trial. Margaery, to her horror, is also arrested by the High Sparrow for giving false testimony, and dragged from the room while calling Tommen for help.
Margaery is imprisoned by the Faith.
Margaery is placed in a cell beneath the Sept of Baelor. Cersei comes to visit her, bringing her dinner and offering her condolences, but by now, Margaery knows of Cersei's part in the plan to have her and Loras arrested, accuses her of lying and ultimately orders her to leave, throwing the bowl of stew at her and calling her a "hateful bitch." The High Sparrow later tells Cersei that both Margaery and Loras are to stand trial.
Margaery is held captive by the Sparrows.
Still in her dank cell, a bruised Margaery is being read at ceaselessly from the Seven Pointed Star by Septa Unella. Margaery inquires about Loras's condition, but Unella says she must confess her sins first and moves to strike her. At that precise moment the High Sparrow steps in and stops Unella, ordering his acolyte to attend the Faith's "other guests." His High Holiness admits that at times Unella takes her devotion too far; still Margaery's questions concerning Loras remain unanswered. Instead, the High Septon mentions that Tommen misses his wife terribly, and that the love between husband and wife is sacrosanct, and that sins, however, have a way of leading decent people away from all things sacred and into wickedness. Margaery claims she has committed no sins. The High Sparrow gently reprimands the Tyrell Queen, asking if she considers herself to be "wholly without sin." When Margaery finally acquiesces that no one is perfect and that everyone makes mistakes, the High Sparrow assures her she's on the right path but has many miles left to go.
The High Sparrow shows compassion towards Margaery.
Some time later, Margaery is again brought to speak with the High Sparrow. He relates his story about how he began to reject the material world, but Margaery calls him out for quoting from the Book of the Stranger. She admits she isn't that familiar with The Seven-Pointed Star, but Septa Unella has been reading passages from it at her. The High Sparrow agrees that Unella has a habit of reading at people and finishes his story, allowing Margaery to see Loras. Seeing that her brother has nearly given up hope, Margaery encourages him to keep fighting.
Margaery sways Tommen towards the Faith.
Eventually, the High Sparrow allows Tommen to visit Margaery, who now appears clean and kempt, and unnervingly cheerful considering her recent ordeal. Margaery professes to Tommen her newly found devotion to the Faith. She admits that although she had always put on a kind and caring persona in the past, she had done so with ulterior motives. Upon being asked by Tommen of Loras, she states that he must atone for his sins. This convinces Tommen to unite the crown and the faith, intent on bringing a new era for the Seven and for Westeros.
Margaery prepares to make her Walk of Atonement.
Just before her own walk of atonement on the steps of the Great Sept of Baelor, her father, along with his army, and Jaime Lannister arrive in order to prevent her humiliation. Jaime threatens to incapacitate the Faith Militant by force, but before any hostility can occur, the High Sparrow announces King Tommen as a newly converted follower of the Faith and calls off Margaery's atonement, claiming that she has done her part by bringing Tommen onto their side. The Queen Consort then joins her husband in a unification of the Baratheon monarchy and the Faith of the Seven.
Margaery is in the Sept reading from The Seven-Pointed Star when the High Sparrow arrives. They quote verses about the Mother together before discussing the poor. The High Sparrow then asks Margaery why she has not been sharing the marriage bed with Tommen, prompting Margaery to explain that the desires that once drove her no longer do. The High Sparrow responds that Margaery has a duty to her king, country, and the gods: she must produce an heir. The High Sparrow then reveals that he "fears" for her grandmother, stating that while she is a strong and powerful woman, she is also an unrepentant sinner. He tells Margaery that she must bring her grandmother around to their way of thinking or else there will be consequences for "her body and soul." The implied threat is not lost on Margaery.
Margaery meets with her grandmother following her release.
Under the supervision of Septa Unella, Margaery meets with Olenna inside the Red Keep. Olenna openly insults Septa Unella, whom Margaery defends, saying she has been a true friend and teacher. Olenna reacts with disgust, pulling Margaery into another room in an attempt to have some privacy, but Septa Unella follows them. Olenna begins verbally attacking Septa Unella, stating that she needs a good bashing. Once more, Margaery comes to the septa's defense. Olenna questions what the Sparrows have done to her, and Margaery replies that Olenna marched against the gods. Olenna argues that they marched for Margaery and Loras's sake.
Margaery replies that the gods could have punished Olenna and her allies for their blasphemy, but they instead showed mercy. Olenna reminds Margaery that Loras is still imprisoned and that that is hardly mercy. Margaery assures her that Loras may return to Highgarden following his atonement, though he will have to renounce his titles and live the rest of his life in penitence. Olenna is rightfully horrified by this due to the fact that Loras is the heir to Highgarden and believing that Margaery's loyalties towards her family and house have weakened. Before she can say more, Margaery kneels in front of her and urges her to return to Highgarden. Olenna says that she will never leave Margaery.
Margaery bids an emotional farewell to Olenna.
Margaery repeats her plea, this time with a marked sense of urgency, secretly slipping a piece of paper into her grandmother's hand. Understanding the silent message, Olenna relents. She tells Margaery that she will see her soon, and the two share a hug. During the hug, Margaery's mask slips for a split second because of the emotion. After Olenna leaves, Margaery cheerfully asks Septa Unella if she would like to pray. Outside the room, Olenna unfolds the note to find a rose—House Tyrell's sigil—drawn on it. This reassures her that Margaery's true loyalty remains with her family.
Margaery takes note of Cersei's absence following Loras's mutilation.
At Cersei and Loras's trial, Margaery stands with her father in the Great Sept of Baelor, and watches from the sidelines as Loras renounces his allegiance to House Tyrell, confesses to his crimes and agrees to join the Sparrows. Presumably, Margaery becomes heir to Highgarden for the final moments of her life after her brother's disinheritance. She comforts her father and restrains him from intervening when the Faith Militant begin carving the seven-pointed star into Loras's forehead. When Margaery realizes Cersei is not present, the High Sparrow sends Lancel to bring her to the sept by force. When Lancel himself does not return after a prolonged period of time, Margaery suggests to the High Sparrow that Cersei's absence and that of her son indicates that she is plotting to harm them.
Margaery gives one last look at the High Sparrow, knowing they are all doomed.
Margaery then attempts to evacuate the Sept, taking the frightened Loras with her. Clearly underestimating Cersei, the High Sparrow dismisses this notion and has his Sparrows keep the Tyrell siblings from leaving the sept, along with everyone else present. Powerless to do anything or reach her father in their final moments, Margaery gives the High Sparrow a knowing look, angered at his lack of understanding and his ignorance of Cersei's unmatched cruelty. He then realizes their doom is nigh, and Margaery clutches to her brother as the sept erupts in an explosion of wildfire, killing everyone inside, including Margaery, Loras, and their father.
Although Cersei is initially delighted in wiping out her enemies in the Faith (and a rival in Margaery), as a result of Margaery's death, Tommen commits suicide after he sees the burning sept from his chambers, leading to Cersei seizing the Iron Throne. Without Margaery to act as a link in the alliance between House Tyrell and House Lannister, and vengeful of her progeny's death at the hands of Cersei, Olenna aligns Highgarden's forces with Daenerys Targaryen following a meeting with the Sand Snakes of Dorne.
During the meeting at Dragonstone to discuss marching full force on King’s Landing, Daenerys states that she does not want to be known as Queen of the Ashes (i.e. she doesn't want to rule over a country that must be destroyed to be conquered). Olenna remarks to Daenerys that Margaery was the most admired Queen within living memory, among both the nobility and the small folk, but now all that remains of her is ashes. She concludes that for Daenerys to claim the Iron Throne, she must be feared as well as loved, a trait Margaery lacked.
After the death of her grandmother at the Sack of Highgarden, the Lannister-Tarly forces are attacked by Daenerys Targaryen, in which the surviving lords are asked to swear fealty to Daenerys. Despite the threat of death, Randyll Tarly announces that he already has a Queen in Cersei. However, Tyrion reminds him that Cersei killed Margaery, who was the rightful Queen Consort of the Seven Kingdoms.
When Jaime Lannister returns home to King's Landing after the sacking of Highgarden and the Battle of the Goldroad, he informs Cersei of Olenna's involvement in the murder of Joffrey, and explains her motivations to kill him in order to protect Margaery from the gruesome nature of Joffrey. In addition, Margaery would have been better able to control the more calm-natured and naive Tommen. He remarks that Olenna, her son and grandchildren are dead and that House Tyrell is officially extinct.
Margaery's beauty was equaled by her cleverness, which she had in abundance. A true protégée of her grandmother Olenna, she was a gifted manipulator who knew how to maneuver her way in court politics. Margaery's strength was in her ability to win the minds and loyalties of her subjects, which had proven to be a threat to those who rival her family, such as the Lannisters. She demonstrated her formidable skill in her charity work to win over the commoners of King's Landing, as well as her manipulation of Joffrey by making him think she was excited by his dark impulses. In return, Margaery gained the acceptance of both her subjects and Joffrey, who was an unpredictable and uncontrollable madman to everyone else, including his mother. This proved to be a threat to Cersei, who only relied on the fear of her family name and her position as a source of power.
Margaery possessed the tact, politeness and - in many respects - political acumen that Cersei lacked. While Cersei was blunt and often rude, Margaery was capable of exuding the courtly behavior and courtesies expected of a queen - while still privately engaging in palace intrigues to increase her family's power. Cersei scorned her status as a woman in a realm dominated by men, though she was willing to use sex as a weapon to seduce those she needs (such as her cousin Lancel). In contrast, Margaery worked within the social standards of "proper" femininity in Westeros, but adeptly turned them to her favor, to orchestrate political machinations from behind the scenes. Like most players in the "game of thrones", Margaery's ultimate goal was to gain power - either by sitting on the Iron Throne or being in close proximity to it - but unlike many others, her machinations were not motivated by devious powerlust or a claim to the succession (as a Tyrell, the latter was irrelevant), but simply a desire to secure her family in a place of influence where they could direct political affairs in their favor.
​Although Margaery had to develop many different facades depending on who she is trying to manipulate, she was shown to genuinely have a good heart, compassion, and empathy. Margaery had loving relationships with all of her family members: she loved her brother Loras and was entirely tolerant of his homosexuality - to the point that when her father contracted a marriage-alliance between herself and Loras's own lover Renly, she acknowledged that it was a paper marriage, and was quite frank that she had no issues with her new husband continuing his sexual relationship with her brother. In addition, she rather resourcefully suggested utilizing Loras in order to help conceive a child with Renly. She also showed genuine concern for Sansa Stark and tried to form a friendship with her, even offering her help to get out of King's Landing once married to Joffrey - though this may have been in part because she had the more long-term goal of good relations with the North, sensing that the unstable Lannisters wouldn't be in power forever. She shared a very strong bond with her grandmother, sharing her acuity for manipulation and political maneuvering. Though she had developed many facades in order to sway the opinions of others in her favor, she was extremely loyal to her family and house, and would go to great lengths to keep them safe. Though she was willing and able to feign affection for Renly and Joffrey, she genuinely cared for Tommen (she may not have exactly loved him, but it's quite clear that she at least liked him) and bore him no ill will when he failed to stop the arrest of both her and her brother, a feeling which he reciprocated to such an extent that he willingly committed suicide when she was murdered by Cersei.
It should be noted that Margaery herself was not technically outmaneuvered by Cersei in the end: Margaery, even without having any idea of the wildfire plot, realized the threat of Cersei's absence, and thus ordered an evacuation, potentially with time to spare to get everyone out. It was, instead, the High Sparrow who was outmaneuvered, refusing to listen to Margaery and not accepting that his plans were about to collapse.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Margaery is the (initially) unwed daughter of Mace Tyrell, one of the most powerful lords in Westeros. Margaery herself is considered to be not only very beautiful, but very intelligent despite her relatively young age. The Tyrells are a loving family, and Margaery has a good relationship with both her parents and her brothers. She also has a close relationship with her paternal grandmother, Olenna Redwyne, who has tutored Margaery in the skills of court intrigue.
Many Houses and eligible lords want to marry their sons to Margaery and gain an alliance with the formidable House Tyrell, but Mace has been holding out for the most favorable match possible.
Margaery is younger in the books, sixteen at the time of her marriage to Renly making her the same age as Robb Stark. However, Margaery has been further aged in the series, making her slightly older than Robb Stark, as Natalie Dormer is four years older than Richard Madden. The TV series producers enjoyed Dormer's audition so much that they decided to overlook this minor difference. Thus while Margaery is the youngest of Mace's children in the books, TV-Margaery is officially a year or two older than her brother Loras - though in the male-dominated culture and inheritance system of the Seven Kingdoms (with the exception of Dorne), this does not change Margaery's place in line of succession, or significantly change her character.
Margaery's true motivations are not discussed in the books, but the TV series makes her ambitions clear to the audience. This is largely due to the narrative mechanics: Margaery is not a POV character in the books (neither are Renly or Loras), and the scenes at King Renly's army camp are told from Catelyn's point of view - logically, she doesn't see the inside of Renly's tent nor is she privy to Margaery's actions. The TV series has the freedom to expand on the stories of non-POV characters, hence the apparent expansion of Margaery's character. Thus Margaery in the TV series is faithful to Margaery's actions and behavior in the books, it's just that the TV series actually depicts events which occurred "off screen" in the books.
An interesting result of showing Margaery's POV actions is the effect it will have on portraying the sparring between Margaery and Cersei Lannister. Most of the clashes between Margaery and Cersei are shown from Cersei's POV, but Cersei is an "unreliable narrator." Cersei is vindictive and paranoid, and starts suspecting that anything that goes wrong in the capital, both large and small matters, must be Margaery plotting against her, or at least the Tyrell family in general. Intriguingly, at least some of these attempts to outmaneuver Cersei were objectively true, i.e. the Tyrells do try to marry Sansa to their eldest son (Willas in the books, Loras in the TV series) but how much of these plots were actually masterminded by Margaery, or simply Margaery following orders from her father Mace and grandmother Olenna, weren't entirely clear. The inner mechanics of House Tyrell's political schemes in the capital are not directly portrayed in the narrative of the books. Margaery could conceivably have masterminded some of these, while others may have been the actions of House Tyrell as a whole, though Cersei increasingly fixates on Margaery and blames her for everything the Tyrells are planning, because she fears that Margaery is the new young queen who has come to supplant her. Even so, as Cersei's paranoia increases, she starts blaming Margaery for plots which other parts of the books objectively establish that other people were responsible for (i.e. Littlefinger, Varys, the other scheming courtiers, etc.). Due to these events occurring in Cersei's skewed POV narration the books were never entirely clear about which of these were plots Margaery herself directly orchestrated (at least some actually were), and which of these plots Cersei irrationally blamed on Margaery even though she actually had no hand in them (at least some events were revealed to not involve Margaery at all). Thus the TV series may end up definitively establishing which events Margaery was or was not responsible for, when this was left deliberately vague in the novels.
The first book, A Game of Thrones, features a small subplot hinting that Renly Baratheon was working as an agent to the Tyrells' rising power by trying to bring Margaery to King's Landing. He shows her picture to Ned Stark and asks if she resembles Lyanna Stark, hoping that such a resemblance will convince Robert to cast Cersei aside and make Margaery Queen. A slightly bemused Ned insists that Margaery and Lyanna look nothing alike. Ned thinks it ironic that Renly, who is said to strongly resemble a young Robert, should be smitten with a girl whom he thinks resembles Lyanna. In the second novel, Renly reveals that he and Loras have planned to wed Margaery to Robert.
As Margaery's popularity and influence over Tommen grow, Cersei becomes convinced that the Tyrells undermine the Lannisters; that they conspired with Tyrion to murder Joffrey; and that Margaery is the queen whom Maggy referred to. Driven by her paranoia, Cersei seeks to dispose of Margaery - but not simply kill her as she did with Robert and the previous High Septon; Cersei is aware it must be done in such manner that will not jeopardize the alliance with the Tyrells (at least until Stannis is defeated).
Cersei plots Margaery's downfall directly by arranging for her to be accused of serial adultery. First she sends Osney Kettleblack to seduce Margaery, but he fails because Margaery is always with her cousins and other companions. Cersei tries another plan: she forces Pycelle to admit he has supplied Margaery Moon tea (a contraceptive/abortive potion); next, she extracts a confession by torturing Margaery's singer about the men with whom Margaery allegedly slept; then she instructs Osney Kettleblack to visit the High Sparrow and confess to sleeping with Margaery.
Margaery and her cousins are arrested based on the above false testimonies and are charged with lewdness, fornication, adultery and high treason. When Septa Moelle announces that, Cersei pretends to be shocked and claims that it is impossible, Margaery and her cousins are totally innocent. The septa states that Margaery and her cousins were examined by septas, and it was revealed their maidenhood is not intact; Cersei barely manages not to laugh, because she knows the real reason - Margaery's habit of riding horses (riding a horse astride may indeed cause the hymen to crack). Cersei thinks gloatingly "I do hope the little queen and her cousins enjoyed those rides of theirs." She believes that Margaery is doomed and Maggy's prophecy is foiled; but, as happens with almost each and every scheme Cersei comes up with, this one goes wrong too.
The High Sparrow grows suspicious that Osney Kettleblack appears so pleased with himself during the confession. Under torture, Kettleblack breaks and tells the truth: that he never slept with Margaery; he has in fact been sleeping with Cersei; and he killed the previous High Septon at her orders. Together with Lancel's testimony about his affair with Cersei and about Robert's death, the High Septon has enough grounds to arrest Cersei too. Shortly after her visit at Margaery's cell, which she enjoys a lot, Cersei suddenly finds herself in much worse position than Margaery, charged with much heavier crimes.
When word of Margaery's arrest reaches them, her father and Randyll Tarly abandon their military campaigns in the Stormlands and the Riverlands, march on King's Landing with their armies and demand Margaery's release. As the case against her is weak, Margaery is released to Randyll Tarly's custody while awaiting trial for her alleged crimes.
Mace urges Kevan to have Tommen declare that Margaery is innocent. Kevan has doubts about the accusations against Margaery, but he insists on holding a trial - otherwise, he believes that the whispers will follow her for the rest of her life. He explains to Mace that such act will be considered as a defiance against the Faith; they already have enough enemies (Stannis in the north, ironborn in the west, sellswords in the south), hence it will be unwise to offend the High Sparrow and his followers.
Margaery is still alive in the novels.
"Margaery" in the series is pronounced identically to the real-world "Marjorie."
Lord Petyr Baelish, popularly called Littlefinger, was the Master of Coin on the Small Council under King Robert Baratheon and King Joffrey Baratheon. He was a skilled manipulator and used his ownership of brothels in King's Landing to both acquire vast wealth and accrue intelligence on political rivals. Baelish's spy network is eclipsed only by that of his arch-rival Varys. In his quest for power, he orchestrated a huge conflict in Westeros via multiple conspiracies and assassinations, which effectively began the War of the Five Kings leading to widespread devastation and the destruction of several major houses.
After marrying Lady Lysa Arryn, widow of Lord Jon Arryn of the Vale, and her subsequent death at his hand, he became the Lord Protector of the Vale. Because of his relationship with her, Baelish was able to heavily influence Lysa's son Robin Arryn, the new Defender of the Vale. To further his goal of sitting on the Iron Throne, Baelish took Sansa Stark under his wing in order to gain some influence within House Stark, but his role in the deaths of Eddard Stark, Jon Arryn, and Lysa Arryn was finally exposed, and he was executed for his crimes.
Petyr Baelish was the head of House Baelish and the lord of an extremely minor holding, so small it has neither name nor a maester, located in a small area within the Fingers, a coastal region in the northeastern shores of the Vale of Arryn.
House Baelish had very meager origins and no distinguished lineage: Petyr's great-grandfather was a lowly sellsword from Braavos who came to the Vale at the invitation of House Corbray. Petyr's grandfather was a poor hedge knight, who managed to earn a minor lordship of a few stony acres in the smallest peninsula of the Fingers.
Petyr's father (left) befriends Lord Hoster Tully during the War of the Ninepenny Kings.
Petyr's father fought in the War of the Ninepenny Kings, the preemptive assault on the forces of Maelys Blackfyre, the last of the Blackfyre Pretenders, before they could attempt an invasion of Westeros. During the conflict, Petyr's father served well under Lord Hoster Tully. Through their good relationship, Hoster agreed to foster his son Petyr at Riverrun, a great honor for a lesser house.
Petyr went to Riverrun when he was eight years old, carrying all he owned in a bundle. At Riverrun, he befriended Hoster's daughters Catelyn and Lysa. Their brother Edmure mockingly nicknamed Petyr "Littlefinger", in reference to his small height at the time and the location of his minor landholdings. The nickname would stick with him throughout his life. Eventually, even Petyr sarcastically embraced the nickname, because it showed how far he had risen, from an impoverished noble-born boy from an insignificant minor house in the "little Finger" peninsula of the Vale, to one of the most powerful officials at the royal court.
Petyr's failed attempt to win Catelyn's hand.
Petyr became obsessed and in love with Catelyn, but she never returned his affections. Lysa was infatuated with Petyr, but he only loved Catelyn. Eventually when she was betrothed to Brandon Stark, heir to Winterfell, Petyr challenged him to a duel, thinking he could win through pluck and courage but he was promptly overpowered and nearly killed, though Catelyn begged Brandon to spare his life (an act which she deeply regretted years later). Embittered, Petyr was cast out of Riverrun and returned to the Vale. During the course of Robert's Rebellion, however, Brandon was killed by the Mad King Aerys II Targaryen, so Catelyn married his younger brother Eddard Stark, while to secure a political alliance Lysa was wed to Jon Arryn, ruler of the Vale. Manipulating Lysa's infatuation with himself, Petyr ingratiated himself into Jon's services, first as a customs officer at Gulltown, where he increased the port's revenues tenfold. Seeing Littlefinger's financial acumen, Jon was easily convinced by Lysa to later bring Littlefinger to the royal court at King's Landing, and make him Master of Coin on King Robert Baratheon's Small Council. Petyr's blatant ambition often placed him at odds with the Master of Whisperers, Varys.
In charge of the crown's treasury, Littlefinger rapidly grew into a powerful player in royal politics and a master of court intrigues. Of an older mindset, few who did not know him suspected Littlefinger as a threat, seeing only that he was a man from a very minor House, with no distinguished lineage, significant landholdings, or armies. Instead, Littlefinger based his newfound power on money. Baelish is unscrupulous in his search for power and wealth: he has bought multiple brothels in the city. Particularly a high-class brothel catering to the nobles in the city, cynically noting that whores make a better investment than ships because they rarely sink. Baelish makes good use of his brothels to have his agents spy on and manipulate his clientele and owns one of the largest spy networks in Westeros, second only to Varys's. Littlefinger has been known to privately bribe lords who have unusual or violent sexual fetishes if they pay the right price; ranging from supplying lords with amputee prostitutes, to delivering young boys to pederasts, and even delivering prostitutes to be secretly murdered by his clients for thrill-kills.
Due to their past friendship as children, Catelyn continued to believe that Lord Baelish was a friend she could count on at court.
Littlefinger greets Eddard upon his arrival in King's Landing. They quickly catch up, and Baelish recalls his duel with Brandon Stark, stating that Brandon had left a scar from Petyr's navel to collarbone. At the first Small Council meeting with Ned as the Hand, Littlefinger reports that the realm is six million gold dragons in debt, half of it owed to House Lannister. Catelyn Stark and Ser Rodrik Cassel attempt to sneak into the city, but are spotted by one of Littlefinger's men. They are taken to meet Littlefinger at one of his brothels. Catelyn is angered by their treatment, but asks Littlefinger for aid. She is trying to identify the people who tried to have her son Bran Stark killed. Littlefinger is able to answer this quickly: the elaborate dagger wielded by the assassin used to be his, but he lost it in a bet with Tyrion Lannister.
Eddard assaulting Petyr for saying his wife is in this brothel.
Littlefinger fetches Eddard to meet his wife, but when Eddard realizes he was being brought to a brothel, he thinks Littlefinger is insulting him by saying his wife is a whore. Eddard throws Littlefinger up against a wall before Catelyn appears and Eddard becomes pacified. After hearing her news, he vows to find the truth and expose the Lannisters to Robert and Littlefinger agrees to be his ally in this, for the affection he once bore Catelyn as a youngster. Eddard correctly believes that Littlefinger is still in love with his wife.
Baelish attends the Small Council.
Baelish attends a Small Council meeting concerning discourse due to the visitors attracted by Robert's tourney for Eddard, where he is told that he must find expenses to strengthen the City Watch of King's Landing.
Littlefinger tells Ned about King's Landing espionage.
Littlefinger meets with Eddard and suggests that he keep his investigation into Jon Arryn's death lower in profile, where he reveals that Pycelle has told him of Eddard's possession of The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms. After pointing out a gardener as a spy of Cersei Lannister, an urchin boy as a little bird of Varys and a septa as one of his own, he gives Eddard some interesting intelligence: Jon Arryn's former squire has been knighted and will fight in the forthcoming Hand's tourney. He also advises him to investigate an armorer located in the city. Eddard decides that Littlefinger may be more trustworthy than he first thought, but Littlefinger discourages him from thinking that way.
Petyr meets Sansa and Arya.
Littlefinger sits next to Sansa Stark during the tournament, and remarks that she and Joffrey have had a lover's quarrel. When her sister, Arya, asks about how he got his moniker, he tells her of how his home, the Fingers, was combined with his small height as a child. Following the death of Ser Hugh at the hands of Gregor Clegane, Baelish then tells Sansa that Gregor, the "Mountain That Rides", has a dark reputation: he pushed his little brother Sandor's face into a fire for taking and playing with a toy of his when they were young, burning him severely. Littlefinger recommends that Sansa not spread that story around.
Littlefinger loses a bet to Renly Baratheon over the joust between Ser Loras Tyrell and Ser Gregor Clegane. He makes it clear that he knows about Renly's sexual relationship with Loras, to Renly's discomfort. He then explains to Sansa that Loras had been crafty in his attack, to which Sansa defends Loras's honour. Petyr rebuffs this by saying that gold provides exception.
Baelish and Varys converse in the Throne Room.
Varys finds Littlefinger in the Great Hall staring at the Iron Throne, where he reveals that he would intend to execute all those who have ever mocked or looked down on him if he was King. Varys reveals that he knows about Littlefinger's assistance in Eddard's investigation of Jon Arryn's death and reminds Littlefinger of the consequences that may befall him should the Lannisters discover his involvement. In response, Littlefinger reveals that he already knows about Varys having met with both Eddard and Illyrio Mopatis, a Pentoshi magister representing House Targaryen. Their conversation is interrupted by Renly, who informs them that Robert will be joining them at their Small Council meeting. They then both support the motion to have Daenerys Targaryen and her unborn child assassinated before the Dothraki can invade Westeros; Petyr in particular emphasises that the situation should be dealt with quickly, comparing the situation to unwanted sex.
Littlefinger later introduces Eddard to Mhaegen, a prostitute and mother of yet another of King Robert's bastard children. Outside the brothel, Eddard gets into a fight with Ser Jaime Lannister. Littlefinger flees, promising to return with the City Watch.
Littlefinger is stunned when Eddard orders that Gregor Clegane be arrested and executed for his raids on the Riverlands and when he orders Tywin Lannister to present himself at court to answer for his bannerman's crimes. Littlefinger reminds Eddard that Tywin is the richest man in Westeros and that it is gold that wins wars, not armies. Eddard disagrees, asking why Tywin is not the king if this is the case.
Petyr explains his ambitions to Ros.
Littlefinger instructs the newly-arrived Ros and another prostitute, Armeca, on how to please their customers and make them happy. When they ask him to join them, he refuses, saying that he only ever had eyes for one woman. He tells them about his past, how he loved and fought a duel for a woman. He lost and subsequently realized that he could never beat those in power by honorable means, as they would never let him compete on equal terms and will defeat them with his intellect. When Ros asks him what he wants, he says, "Oh, everything." before excusing the two prostitutes.
Baelish betrays Ned in order to remain and gain power.
Later, Eddard tells him the truth of Joffrey's parentage and his plan to install Stannis on the throne when Robert dies. Littlefinger suggests instead that they let Joffrey rule but act as the powers behind the throne. If he does not mature into the king they want, they can expose his dirty secret and install Lord Renly instead. Eddard rejects the plan as treason and instead asks Littlefinger to win over the City Watch to their cause. Littlefinger agrees, but later the City Watch turns on Eddard's men and kills them, while Littlefinger holds a dagger to Eddard's throat, pointing out, "I did warn you not to trust me."
Petyr tries to convince Cersei of Sansa's innocence.
Lord Baelish asks the Queen to allow Sansa Stark to prove her loyalty as he attends the girl’s audience with the Queen and the council. He defends Sansa during her testimony, suggesting that she is innocent of any wrong, much to the chagrin of Varys (who believes that Sansa's confession is the only way to free Ned) and Pycelle (who is under threat from the Lannisters). Subsequently, Cersei orders that Sansa write to her brother, Robb, in order to settle the situation peacefully. He stands with the Small Council as the details of Joffrey’s reign are read out and Barristan Selmy’s position is ordered to be taken up by Jaime Lannister; a snide remark from Baelish at Selmy's expense causes the seasoned knight to draw his sword and toss it at the king's feet. He glances suspiciously at Varys as Sansa seeks pardon for her father's actions.
Baelish watches on as Eddard Stark confesses at his trial and is executed.
Littlefinger discusses kingship with Varys, and they engage in banter revolving around the Master of Whisperers' lack of genitalia. They eventually acknowledge their mutual admiration and respect of one another, before being interrupted by Joffrey and his entourage.
The Citadel announces the coming of winter and Littlefinger warns the Small Council that they do not have enough food for a protracted winter lasting more than five years. Cersei orders the city barred to refugees from the War of the Five Kings. Tyrion Lannister arrives to take up his position as acting Hand of the King to Cersei's consternation.
Cersei tasks Petyr with finding Arya Stark.
Stannis Baratheon learns of Jaime Lannister's incestuous relationship with Cersei in a letter sent by Eddard Stark before his death, which was sent with Petyr's knowledge. Stannis composes his own missive and sends it to all the high lords of the Seven Kingdoms asking them to declare their loyalty to him and telling them of Joffrey's illegitimacy. Cersei tasks Littlefinger with finding the missing Arya Stark and needles him about his love for Catelyn Stark.
Cersei threatens Petyr.
He responds by referencing her incest, reminding her that with knowledge, comes power. Littlefinger receives a violent reprimand when Cersei tells her men to cut Littlefinger's throat but then says she has changed her mind, in order to remind him of his place, and that being born into power can never match Petyr's ambitiousness, threatening his life if does not locate Arya. King Joffrey Baratheon responds to the ensuing rumors by ordering a city wide massacre of his father's bastards. The City Watch storm into Littlefinger's brothel in search of one of Robert's illegitimate children - a baby girl named Barra. They rip Barra from her mother's arms and kill the child in front of Littlefinger's employees.
Littlefinger mocks a request from the Night's Watch for assistance combating wildling activity and reporting an attack by wights. Tyrion has Lord Janos Slynt exiled to the Wall for his part in the massacre. Littlefinger later has to reorganise a nobleman to whore with Armeca when Ros begins to cry during his time with her. She explains that she is traumatised with Barra's murder, giving her insomnia. In order to convince her that it is best for her to keep up her work, Littlefinger intimidates Ros with a story of a Lysene who did not bring him significant income due to her sadness, who he eventually sold to a violently perverted individual. He allows her to take the rest of the day off, but asks her to resume her work the following day.
Tyrion meets with Littlefinger and outlines a plan to wed Myrcella Baratheon to Robin Arryn to secure the support of the Vale. He promises to make Littlefinger the Lord of Harrenhal and Lord Paramount of the Trident in exchange for his assistance and swears him to secrecy. Pycelle is arrested for revealing that Tyrion plans to wed Myrcella into House Martell and Littlefinger realizes that he was involved in a ruse. He confronts Tyrion who apologizes and offers him another opportunity; to act as an envoy to Catelyn to propose a prisoner exchange.
Littlefinger reaches Catelyn at Renly Baratheon's camp in the Stormlands. He faces a frosty reception from Renly but nevertheless offers to betray the Lannisters and open the gates of King's Landing to Renly's army. He takes interest in Renly's new bride Margaery Tyrell and lets Margaery know that he is aware that it is a purely political marriage because of Renly's homosexuality.
Petyr gives Ned's bones to Catelyn.
He meets with Catelyn as planned and delivers Eddard's remains as a sign of good faith. She greets him with angry recriminations over his betrayal of Eddard and rejects his poorly timed advances. He delivers Tyrion's suggested exchange terms; Jaime for Sansa and Arya Stark. Littlefinger lies that the Lannisters have Arya in their custody.
Petyr Baelish forges a new alliance with the Tyrells.
Renly is killed in mysterious circumstances and Littlefinger then approaches the Tyrells with a new proposal of an alliance with Joffrey. This will allow Margaery Tyrell to remain a queen and provide Loras Tyrell vengeance on Stannis. He leaves the camp with them for Highgarden. Catelyn acts alone to free Jaime on returning to Robb's camp, just as Littlefinger suggested.
Littlefinger travels to Harrenhal to propose an alliance between House Lannister and House Tyrell to Lord Tywin Lannister. When arrives at camp, his cupbearer, Arya Stark, who Cersei tasked Petyr with tries to hide her face to prevent Littlefinger from identifying her. Baelish discusses the assassination of Renly, and the subsequent rallying of the noble Houses from the Stormlands under the banner of Stannis Baratheon. However, House Tyrell of the Reach has retreated its large army back to their capital at Highgarden, and has not joined Stannis. Baelish discusses with Tywin the possibility of forming an alliance between House Lannister and House Tyrell.
Littlefinger is successful in negotiating with the Tyrells and the allied forces arrive in time to claim victory at the Battle of the Blackwater.
Petyr introduces Margaery to Joffrey.
Littlefinger is elevated to Lord of Harrenhal in reward for brokering the alliance. He jokes that now he must get started on producing some heirs. Hence, Sansa's betrothal to King Joffrey is broken so that Joffrey can marry Margaery. Sansa is overjoyed at that she no longer has to marry Joffrey but tries to look heartbroken.
Petyr warns Sansa about Joffrey.
Littlefinger warns Sansa that she isn't fooling anyone and that Joffrey will not let her go despite setting her aside. He stresses that, if anything, she is in more danger than ever, as she still remains captive, and now has no protection from her egagement. Lord Petyr tells her that she reminds him of Catelyn and offers to take her home to Winterfell but she is reluctant to trust him.
Ros escorts Littlefinger to meet with Sansa.
Baelish colludes with Sansa Stark that he plans to smuggle her out of the city on his ship when he leaves on an upcoming mission. She displays an eagerness to leave as soon as possible. He suggests that when he next leaves the capital by sea, she might be able to stow away. Sansa advises him not to give her too many details since she is a terrible liar. Meanwhile, Ros, who seems to be acting as Littlefinger's aide, reminisces about the day Sansa was born, when all the bells in Winterfell were rung in celebration. She asks Shae to look out for Sansa, particularly in regards to Littlefinger.
Petyr explains the privileges of the Master of Coin.
With his new position as Lord of Harrenhal, Littlefinger's status is elevated considerably, enough for him to leave his position as Master of Coin to Tyrion, purchase a ship and prepare to sail to the Eyrie with a marriage proposal to the widowed Lysa Arryn. However, knowing full well that Sansa could end up being a more politically powerful wife than Lysa, he plans to take her on his ship with him. Ros, now secretly working for Varys, discovers his intentions and informs Varys who promptly convinces Lady Olenna Tyrell to arrange a marriage between Sansa and Loras.
Cersei expresses her worries about the Tyrells to Petyr.
Cersei asks Littlefinger to collect information on the Tyrells, explaining that she fears that the Tyrells do not have the Lannisters' best interests at heart, but her father won't listen. Therefore, she asks that Littlefinger use his spies to try to find out what they're up to, because he has a good working relationship with them after brokering the Lannister-Tyrell alliance. He agrees, but Cersei warns him that this had better produce more results than when she previously asked him to find Arya Stark. Littlefinger orders one of his homosexual prostitutes, Olyvar, to act as Loras's squire and seduce him all the way to the bedroom. He does so and manages to get Loras to admit to the secret wedding plans. Olyvar relays this piece of information back to Littlefinger, who tests Sansa. When she declines her place on his ship, Baelish realizes Varys's plan and tips off Cersei and Tywin.
A short time later, Littlefinger meets with Sansa, offering her a place on his ship that will take him from the capital to the Vale of Arryn. Sansa practices lying for a change, and tells him that they should wait until after Joffrey's wedding, primarily because she fears for his safety if the plan fails (in actuality, she believes her staying in King's Landing will result in a marriage to Loras). A master manipulator, Littlefinger is clearly suspicious of her motives, but doesn't press the matter for the moment. Instead he says he is touched by her concern for his safety, and insists that she call him "Petyr."
Petyr tells Varys of Ros's death.
Baelish deduces that it must have been Ros who betrayed him, so he gives her to King Joffrey, who tortures and kills her with his crossbow. In the throne room, Littlefinger confronts Varys about his foiled plot. Varys responds by telling him that he "did what he did for the good of the realm" to prevent it spiraling into chaos but Littlefinger counters him by asserting that he views chaos as the perfect scenario to climb further up the social ladder. His ship then departs for the Vale of Arryn, much to Sansa's distress, who had just discovered her engagement to Tyrion Lannister.
After Joffrey's death, Dontos Hollard delivers Sansa Stark to Lord Baelish's ship. After Sansa climbs aboard, Dontos reminds Lord Baelish about his payment. Baelish snaps his fingers, and crossbowmen kill Dontos. Baelish takes off Sansa's necklace, which he made himself, and throws it overboard, landing on Dontos' body.
Still sailing, Lord Baelish approaches Sansa at her cabin and tells her that they are on their way to the Vale where she will be safe. Sansa accuses him of killing Joffrey; he tries to deny it at first, but Sansa knows that he had something to do with the murder because getting her out of King's Landing was part of the plan. He admits it, telling her about the poison in the necklace, and states that Joffrey couldn't be trusted and had to be removed. Because Baelish has been away for a while, he would never be suspected, and the whole purpose of the murder was to confuse the Lannisters--which his new friend, Lady Olenna, wanted very badly.
Littlefinger and Sansa, now pretending to be his niece Alayne, pass the Bloody Gate and make their ascent to the Eyrie, where they meet Lysa Arryn and her son, Lord Robin. After Sansa is acquainted with the two of them and is told that no one can know about her presence, Robin takes her to her chambers. Baelish is left alone with Lysa, who kisses him and tells him she wants to marry him immediately.
Lysa reminds Petyr she killed her husband at his behest.
He is reluctant at first and wants to inform the Lords of the Vale about the ceremony, but Lysa says that they already had their wedding night long ago. She then asks him what wife would do for him the things she had done for him, including poisoning her husband's wine, thus killing him, and then writing a letter to her sister Catelyn claiming it had been the Lannisters who did it, all of this at Littlefinger's behest. He starts to kiss her before anyone can overhear her. Although Littlefinger states he will inform a septon the following day, Lysa then brings one into the hall to wed them immediately and says that she will scream loudly as her husband, Lord Baelish, is making love to her that night, even being able to her across the Narrow Sea. She keeps her promise, much to Sansa's annoyance.
Littlefinger kisses Sansa.
The next day, after Sansa slaps Robin for ruining the snow castle of Winterfell she made in the Eyrie's courtyard, Littlefinger approaches her and calms her down, stating that Robin should've been disciplined by his mother long ago and that he will deal with Lysa. When Sansa states she will never see Winterfell again, he counters that a lot can happen between "now and never" and that she must demolish her old home if she wants to build one anew. Sansa insists to know why he killed Joffrey.
Petyr cruelly manipulates Lysa before he kills her.
He answers that he did it out of love for Sansa's mother. He adds that in a different world she might have been his child. He dismisses the notion and states she's more beautiful that Catelyn ever was. He kisses Sansa afterward. Later, Petyr prevents Lysa from throwing Sansa out of the Moon Door after she saw the kiss. After, Lysa is more subdued, Petyr tells her he has always loved only one woman, her sister. He then pushes Lysa out of the Moon Door.
Baelish is interrogated following Lysa's death.
Following Lysa's death, Petyr Baelish is questioned by Lord Yohn Royce, Lady Anya Waynwood, and Ser Vance Corbray about Lysa's death, which he claims was suicide. The lords don't believe him, given Lysa's devotion to her son. They rebuff Littlefinger's explanations in favor of speaking with the only other witness: his "niece", Alayne. Baelish is noticeably concerned after they reveal that they will not allow him to speak to her prior to her testimony so they can hear the "unadulterated truth." However, after confirming that Baelish can stay for her testimony, Alayne reveals her true identity, the tale of her captivity and flight from King's Landing. She then speaks of Lysa's mental instability, jealousy, and death, changing only a few details: saying Littlefinger only kissed her on the cheek and that Lysa did throw herself from the Moon Door. Sansa breaks down in tears and the lords are convinced, but while none of them are looking, she gives Littlefinger a stony, almost triumphant gaze.
Petyr requests that the Lords of the Vale help Robin in his transition from boy to man.
Following the questioning, Petyr admonishes the lords for hiding away in the Vale during the War of the Five Kings, questioning their loyalty because they refused Catelyn Stark's plea for assistance in the conflict against the Lannisters. When asked who he thinks they should back, he responds that they should back "Robin Arryn, Lord of the Vale." When the lords scoff at his suggestion, claiming that Robin is just a sickly boy, Petyr responds by declaring that "even sickly little boys can become powerful men," and that it is time for young Robin to leave the nest. The boy, he claims, needs to learn to ride a horse, to swing a sword, and to become the lord the Vale needs. He offers to take Lord Robin on a tour of the Vale in order for him to become acquainted with his domains, a request that the lords agree to.
Later, Baelish visits Sansa and asks why she lied on his behalf. Without looking up from the dress she is mending, Sansa explains that she has no idea what Royce, Corbray, and Waynwood would want from her if he were eliminated, but that she does know what it is he wants. Littlefinger seems impressed that she made such a calculating decision, but attempts to cast doubt on her certainty. Sansa doesn't take the bait.
Baelish prepares Robin to leave the Eyrie.
Later on, Baelish and Robin stand in the High Hall, preparing to depart for their tour of the Vale. Robin expresses his uncertainty about leaving the Eyrie, echoing his mother's words that the outside world is a dangerous place where he could die. Petyr calms his fears by stating that people die from everyday causes, and that instead of worrying about his inevitable death to spend time focusing on his life, which lays before him. At that moment, a raven-haired Sansa appears at the top of the stairs in a feathered black dress with a plunging neckline. Petyr stares at her intently, clearly intrigued and pleased by her recent transformation, and she returns his smile knowingly.
Littlefinger watches Lord Robin practice his swordsmanship along with Sansa and Yohn Royce.
Littlefinger attends a sword jousting session for Lord Robin at Runestone, along with Alayne and Yohn Royce. Royce remarks on Robin's weak skills at swordsmanship, but Petyr insists his name is all that matters, not his skill. A maester delivers him a raven message, which he reads discreetly. Littlefinger leaves Robin in the care of Lord Royce, for further training. On the carriage ride, he is questioned by Sansa as to why they are heading west when Lord Royce was told they would be traveling to the Fingers, unsure of his source of distrust. Petyr promises her that they are going somewhere far away, where Sansa will be safe from Queen Cersei.
While at an inn, Petyr and Sansa are confronted by Brienne of Tarth, who previously swore an oath to Catelyn Stark to keep the Stark girls safe. Petyr reminds Brienne that she swore an oath to Renly Baratheon and Catelyn Stark, both of whom are now dead, in order to stop Sansa from trusting her. Petyr attempts to "persuade" Brienne to rest with them, but Brienne and her squire, Podrick Payne, escape, and discreetly continue to follow Petyr and his party.
Petyr tells Sansa of her engagement to Ramsay Bolton.
However, when the party arrives at the ruins of Moat Cailin, Sansa realizes that Petyr intends to marry her to Ramsay Bolton, the son of Lord Roose Bolton, who betrayed and murdered her brother and mother. Despite Sansa's reluctance to marry into another family that harmed hers, Petyr persuades her to go along with the plan, citing it as a chance to avenge her family. They subsequently ride through Moat Cailin, and arrive at Winterfell.
Littlefinger's motives are questioned by Roose Bolton.
Later, Petyr speaks with Ramsay and subtly warns him not to inflict any harm on Sansa. He also speaks with Roose regarding the validity of Sansa's marriage to Tyrion Lannister. Petyr insists that since Tyrion never slept with Sansa, their marriage is invalid. Roose declares that he is only interested in Sansa's name, not her virtue (after Baelish suggests he have Sansa inspected) and voices his doubts as to whose side Petyr is truly on, having essentially betrayed the Lannisters by taking Sansa away from them and returning her to the North to marry into a family that the Lannisters are no longer backing, though Petyr counters by citing Roose's betrayal of the Starks and Tullys. Roose then presents a letter for Petyr from Cersei which arrived from the Eyrie, and demands to read Petyr's reply before it is sent off.
Later on, Petyr finds Sansa in the crypts of Winterfell paying her respects to her deceased family members. Petyr recalls about how Rhaegar Targaryen kidnapped Sansa's aunt, Lyanna, which started Robert Baratheon's rebellion against the Targaryen family. Petyr then tells Sansa that he has to return to King's Landing on Cersei's request. Sansa expresses unease about being left alone in Winterfell, but Petyr tells her not to worry, since Stannis Baratheon is garrisoned at Castle Black and will most likely make another try for the Iron Throne, which will require him to retake Winterfell, destroy the Boltons and win the Northern Lords to his side, and out of respect for Ned Stark's support of his claim, Stannis will rescue Sansa and name her the new Warden of the North, and if Stannis is killed or does not even come, then Petyr suggests Sansa can destroy the Boltons from within. He kisses her on the lips again and departs.
Baelish returns to King's Landing to find the city under the rule of the newly-reestablished Faith Militant. Lancel Lannister, a member of the religious cult known as the Sparrows, warns him that his days as a brothel owner in the capital are over. He goes to meet Cersei and he informs her of the Boltons' plans to marry Sansa to Ramsay. Angered at the Boltons' betrayal, Cersei agrees with Baelish's plans to lead an army of Vale knights to Winterfell to reclaim the North for the Lannisters, as the warriors from the Eyrie are trained to fight in winter (the weather is starting to turn at this point), but only once the Boltons and Stannis Baratheon have battled over the North and weakened both armies. In exchange, Baelish asks to be appointed as the new Warden of the North once Winterfell is taken and both the Boltons and Stannis are defeated. Cersei agrees and tells him to return that night to have the King sign a royal decree promoting him.
Baelish reveals crucial information to Olenna.
Baelish later stands in his ruined brothel with a look of regret. He is approached by Olenna Tyrell, having sent her a letter to speak with him. As they speak, Olenna mentions how her grandchildren, Margaery and Loras, have been arrested due to Cersei's machinations and demands his help by threatening that if anything happens to her or if House Tyrell goes down, she will reveal his involvement in Joffrey's murder, which will certainly lead to his execution. Baelish reveals that Cersei summoned him to King's Landing for "a piece of information he had", his prostitute Olyvar, and he tells Olenna that he will give her the same thing he gave Cersei: a handsome young man — implied, in this instance, to be Lancel. Olenna subsequently forces Lancel to reveal the adulterous affair he had with Cersei to the High Sparrow, who has her arrested.
Baelish convinces Robin Arryn to join the fray.
Baelish returns to Runestone and greets Robin Arryn and Yohn Royce. Yohn quickly voices his suspicion of Baelish's involvement in Sansa's marriage to Ramsay Bolton since Baelish had told Yohn that Sansa was going to the Fingers with him. With the intention of manipulating Robin, Baelish responds by falsely claiming the Boltons ambushed Sansa and Baelish on the way to the Fingers and insinuates that Yohn leaked the information to the Boltons. Robin suggests having Yohn thrown through the Moon Door for this false treason but asks for Baelish's advice on what to do with Yohn. Baelish responds that if Yohn can ensure his loyalty to Robin Arryn, which Yohn quickly gives, that Yohn should be given a final chance. Baelish then immediately follows-up and tells Robin that he has learned that Sansa has fled Winterfell and will likely head to her half-brother Lord Commander Jon Snow at Castle Black for protection, though the Boltons will pursue her. Robin responds that since Sansa is his cousin, he should help her. Baelish takes his cue and orders Yohn to gather the knights of the Vale to rescue Sansa from the Boltons. This brings an end to the neutrality of House Arryn, which until then had steered clear of the War of the Five Kings.
Petyr tells Sansa about Brynden's victory at Riverrun.
Later, Baelish sends a letter to Sansa at Castle Black asking to meet in Mole's Town. Sansa travels to Mole's Town with Brienne and confronts Baelish about her marriage to Ramsay, coldly asking if he knew the truth about Ramsay's sadistic side all along or if he was unaware and therefore, just stupid. Baelish responds that he made a mistake "trusting a stranger" and apologizes profusely, horrified at what Ramsay did, but has rallied the knights of the Vale to her cause and that the army is encamped at Moat Cailin. Sansa refuses his offer, saying that Baelish cannot help her - that he cannot even help himself if she orders Brienne to strike him down. She tells him that she already has her brother Jon's help and they will rally other Northern houses to their cause. She finishes by warning him never to speak to her again. Baelish, as he prepares to leave, tells Sansa of her great-uncle Brynden Tully's success in recapturing Riverrun and suggests reaching out to him for support. Before he leaves, he reminds Sansa of Jon's bastardy.
Baelish arrives with the Knights of the Vale.
When failing to rally enough houses to their side, Sansa secretly writes Baelish to take him up on the offer she previously rejected. Baelish arrives with the Vale Knights of House Arryn just when the Stark force is about to be massacred in the Battle of the Bastards, and the Vale forces easily wipe out what remains of the Bolton army. Baelish is present when Wun Wun smashes down the door to Winterfell and witnesses Jon defeat Ramsay in combat. House Stark is subsequently restored as Lords of Winterfell and Ramsay is executed.
Littlefinger tells Sansa of his intentions to sit on the Iron Throne, with her as his queen.
In the battle's aftermath, Baelish approaches Sansa in the Godswood and finally admits that his goal is to sit on the Iron Throne with Sansa as his queen. Despite Baelish having declared for House Stark, Sansa refuses to trust him, due to Baelish's tendency to betray those he declares for his own well-being. Upon Sansa's refusal of him, Baelish attempts to convince Sansa that she should rule the North, calling Jon a "motherless bastard." Baelish is later present at the meeting where Jon is proclaimed the new King in the North by the Northern lords along with the Vale lords. Baelish is the only one who does not cheer, and instead stares at Sansa.
Petyr watches disapprovingly as Jon hands the castles of Last Hearth and Karhold back over to Ned Umber and Alys Karstark, despite their parents' role in the Battle of the Bastards.
Petyr questions Sansa's happiness.
He later confronts Sansa to see if she is truly "safe" and "happy." She tells him she is safe in Winterfell, but he continues to question her in regards to her happiness. Sansa dismisses him. Just before he tries to resume speaking, Sansa dismisses Petyr again as Brienne arrives.
Petyr admits his love for Sansa to Jon.
In the Great Hall, Petyr watches as Jon discusses accepting the deal to meet with Daenerys Targaryen to the other lords, citing the need for Dragonglass to forge weapons to kill White Walkers after receiving a raven from Samwell Tarly. Petyr smirks as Jon places his half-sister Sansa in charge of the North while he is gone. In Winterfell's crypts, Petyr finds Jon visiting his father's tomb and claims to Jon that he only wants to help him. Jon does not buy it and angrily orders Baelish out of the crypt, bluntly stating he has nothing to say to the man. Slightly offended, Baelish retorts that Jon might show him a little gratitude for saving him from death at the hands of Ramsay Bolton. He also admits his love for Sansa - just as he "loved her mother." Disgusted, Jon shoves Petyr against the wall and strangles him, angrily promising Baelish that he will kill him if he ever touches Sansa, and angrily leaves the crypts.
Petyr advises Sansa to plan for every possibility.
Sansa and Petyr learn from Maester Wolkan that they have about 4,000 bushels of wheat. Sansa realizes that they don't have enough food for the coming winter. She advocates building granaries to stockpile for a famine and orders leather to be placed on the armoury. While walking, Baelish and Sansa talk about the threat of Cersei. Petyr urges her to fight every battle and to look for threats in every corner. They are then interupted by a guard who tells Lady Stark that she has received a visitor at the gates, who turns out to be her younger brother Bran Stark.
Petyr later meets with the recently returned Bran and gives him the Valyrian steel dagger that was used to make an attempt on his life from the catspaw. Unimpressed and uninterested, Bran simply asks if he knows who had the dagger before the assassin to which Petyr responds that same question started the War of the Five Kings. Petyr then asks Bran how he survived beyond the Wall only to return to such chaos. Bran replies, "Chaos is a ladder," the very thing Petyr said to Varys during his rise in power after allowing Joffrey Baratheon to kill Ros. Slightly unnerved, Petyr then exits upon the entrance of Meera Reed, addressing Bran as "Lord Stark." However, Bran corrects Littlefinger, explaining that he cannot be a lord because he is now the three-eyed-raven.
Littlefinger cunningly watches Arya's return.
Petyr watches from the battlements as Arya Stark returns to Winterfell and later when she spars with Brienne. However, after the practice, Arya looks up at Petyr with a disapproving and untrustworthy look. Yet again hatching another cunning plan, Petyr bows from the high walls and walks away from Arya's view.
After trying and failing to manipulate Bran, Petyr formulates a plan to separate the Stark sisters, starting with Arya. Arya herself becomes increasingly suspicious of Petyr and begins shadowing him in order to figure out his plan. He engages in conversation with a common girl, before giving her money for her information. Arya follows Petyr around Winterfell and watches him from the battlements as he eerily converses with Yohn Royce and Robett Glover. Petyr then receives Maester Luwin's copy of Sansa's letter to Robb, asking him to surrender to Joffrey, from Wolkan, who assures him that there is no other copy in Winterfell. Arya retrieves the letter after investigating his chambers. However, Petyr watches from the shadows as Arya exits, showing that he knew all along of her spying on him, and was counting on her to find the letter. Petyr smiles, hoping this will turn the hot-tempered Arya against her sister.
After Arya confronts Sansa over the letter, Sansa becomes worried that Arya could turn the Northerners against her or even worse, harm her in some way and voices her concerns to Petyr. Petyr reminds her that Brienne swore an oath to Catelyn that she would watch over both Stark sisters and should protect her from Arya if the latter was to try and murder Sansa.
Following this, Sansa receives a letter from Jon, stating his pledge to Daenerys Targaryen. Petyr then talks of rumors of the Dragon Queen's beauty, making Sansa believe that Jon wishes to marry her. Petyr is also told that Arya had previously worked as a Faceless Man in Braavos, to which he plays on the idea of Arya being a ruthless assassin. Petyr then tells Sansa that he always imagines the worst possible ideas a person has in their mind. He then implants the idea that Arya has come to Winterfell after discovering the letter and her marriages to Tyrion and Ramsay, after which she would become Lady of Winterfell.
However, still unsure of Petyr's intentions, Sansa visits Bran. From this, she learns of his greensight powers, in which he proves Petyr's ultimate guilt in the War of the Five Kings. This proves everything Petyr has done to gain power: his murder of Jon Arryn, his attempt to kill Bran, his betrayal of Ned and his attempt to turn Arya and Sansa against each other.
Petyr watches smugly as Arya is brought to trial, unaware that the trial is for him.
When Arya is seemingly brought to face trial for murder and treason, Sansa catches Petyr off guard when she asks how he wishes to answer for his crimes. She then reveals to all the Northern and Vale lords gathered there, including Yohn Royce (whom she previously lied to), that Petyr did, in fact, kill her aunt Lysa. He also planned the assassination of Jon Arryn and conspired with the Lannisters to imprison Ned so they could frame him for treason.
When Baelish tries to deny the charges, Bran reminds Petyr that he held a knife to Ned's throat and repeats what Petyr told Ned: "I did warn you not to trust me," at which the stunned Petyr fails to muster any type of defense. Arya, holding the Valyrian steel dagger that was given to the Catspaw assassin to kill Bran, who had himself been gifted the dagger by Petyr in an attempt of manipulating him, who passed it along to Arya due to its uselessness is his hands, reminds him that he told their mother the weapon belonged to Tyrion, but deduces it was Petyr's all along.
Baelish begs for his life.
Seeing how things are going, Petyr steps closer to the table, telling Sansa that he has known her since she was a girl and all he did was to protect her; Sansa sarcastically replies "Protected me? By selling me to the Boltons?." He then asks Sansa if they can speak alone and asks if he can or deserves to defend himself, before he tries to order Yohn Royce as Lord Protector to escort him back to the Eyrie, but the Lord scornfully refuses. With no one to turn to for aid, Petyr falls to his knees and begs for his life, claiming that he had loved Catelyn since he was a boy, but Sansa replies he still betrayed her.
Littlefinger lays dead in Winterfell.
Petyr insists he loves Sansa, but she replies he betrayed her too. After Sansa thanks him for the many lessons he gave her and that she will never forget, sharing an affirmative look as Arya proceed to kill him. As he pleads for his life Arya slits his throat with the dagger on behalf of the Stark siblings. Petyr collapses to the floor and dies in a pool of his own blood watched by everyone present. Later on, Sansa and Arya discuss the execution, Sansa tells Arya, "In his own horrible way, I believe he [Petyr] loved me."
With Petyr Baelish dead, Westeros is finally free from his deception; all who were killed in the War of the Five Kings because of his actions are finally avenged.
Littlefinger is a cunning, Machiavellian, unpredictable, deceitful, and ruthless opportunist. He is at times capable of putting on a seemingly friendly face with a friendly smile - but his eyes don't smile when his mouth does. Unlike in the books, where the exact inner motivations that drive Littlefinger are unclear, as are his ultimate goals, in the show he has made clear in several occasions that the Iron Throne is what he desires. Behind his smiles and forced mild manners, Littlefinger is shrewd and calculating, willing to dispose of anyone, even those who trust him, as he would an old coat. He is an extremely intelligent man, not only a genius at financial matters but at controlling those around him. As Varys observed, he is a grasper from a minor House, with a very great skill at befriending and ultimately manipulating powerful people.
In truth, underneath Littlefinger's people-mask, he is a cold sociopath who hungers for power over others basically for its own sake. Curiously, even seemingly plausible goals such as "revenge against the Starks and Tullys" - which at times is what he tells himself he is doing - are really only excuses and rationalizations for his utter ambition to control everything around him - he has stated more than once that he wants "everything."
Littlefinger enjoys exerting power over other people. He is willing to use other people, often vulnerable and weak people (i.e., prostitutes), purely for his own gain, while at the same time using the weaknesses of his enemies as leverage; sometimes he doesn't even use people for any actual purpose, but simply because he enjoys destroying them like a man swatting a fly.
Despite his ingenious planning and manipulation, Littlefinger is not incapable of making mistakes, nor is he above overplaying his hand if he is convinced of the superiority of his position.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Petyr Baelish's father made the acquaintance of Lord Hoster Tully during the War of the Ninepenny Kings, where they fought together. Nothing is known about Petyr's mother, except that her name was Alayne.
"Littlefinger" is a nickname given to Petyr by Edmure Tully during their time at Riverrun together. It is a reference to the fact that Petyr Baelish's holdings are on the smallest of the Fingers, the numerous headlands and peninsulas protruding into the Narrow Sea on the Vale's east coast, and to the fact that he has been slight and short for his age.
On the basis of the above acquaintance, Petyr was sent to foster at Riverrun, where he met Hoster's own daughters, Catelyn and Lysa. Lysa developed a crush on Petyr, but Petyr preferred the older, more unobtainable Catelyn. When Catelyn was betrothed to Brandon Stark of Winterfell Petyr challenged Brandon to a duel of honor for Catelyn's hand, but was soundly defeated. After he had recovered sufficiently from his injures, Lord Hoster had Petyr returned home.
According to Catelyn, Petyr sent her a letter after Brandon's murder by the Mad King (the contents of the letter are not revealed - perhaps he hoped she would agree to marry him), but she burned it unopened, because she knew Ned would marry her in his brother's place.
Petyr was later appointed as a customs official in Gulltown, the main city of the Vale. His extreme success in raising funds, bringing in three times as much as any of the king’s other collectors, led Lord Jon Arryn, the Hand of the King, to appoint him to the Small Council as Master of Coin, a task at which Petyr has excelled: he has made the crown's revenues ten times what they have been under his beleaguered predecessor (though the crown's debts have grown vast as well).
Littlefinger did not simply collect gold and keep it; instead, he paid the king’s debts in promises, and put the king’s gold to work. He bought wagons, shops, ships, houses; he bought grain when it was plentiful and sold bread when it was scarce. In the process, he moved his own men into key positions: harbormasters, tax farmers, customs sergeants, wool factors, toll collectors, pursers, wine factors, etc. No one has ever questioned those appointments, since Littlefinger was no threat to anyone: a clever, friendly person, always able to find whatever gold the king or his Hand required, and yet of such undistinguished birth, he was not a man to fear. He had no banners to call, no army of retainers, no great stronghold, no holdings to speak of, no prospects of a great marriage.
Unlike in the TV series, Tyrion learns from Catelyn that it was Littlefinger who told her the dagger found on the Catspaw assassin sent to kill Bran belonged to Tyrion. Littlefinger explained that it had previously belonged to him until he lost it in a wager with Tyrion when Jaime was unhorsed by Loras Tyrell. Tyrion states that this cannot be true because he never bets against Jaime. Catelyn asks why Petyr would lie to her, to which Tyrion retorts: "why does a bear shit in the woods? Because it is in his nature." Catelyn realizes too late that Littlefinger lied to her, when Jaime independently verifies Tyrion's account and had no reason to lie having just confessed to pushing Bran from the window. Catelyn does not have a chance to confront Littlefinger about his lie; Tyrion does, but for an unknown reason he does not settle his score with Littlefinger, even though he suffered a lot and almost got killed three times due to that lie.
Unlike in the show, Littlefinger does not go to Harrenhal, neither before nor after he becomes its lord. He explains to Sansa it is because of the curse, which caused the destruction of every house that held Harrenhal, and the death of every individual who served as its castellan: Lady Whent, Tywin, Amory Lorch, Vargo Hoat, the Mountain and Polliver.
Following the Massacre in the Red Keep, Jeyne Poole is taken by force to one of Littlefinger's brothels, where she is viciously molested and beaten. In the third novel, Littlefinger comes up with the idea to wed her, disguised as Arya Stark, to Ramsay Bolton. Other than that, he has no contact with the Boltons.
It is implied in the novels that Littlefinger lusts after Sansa, perhaps because she looks so much like her mother, who is lost to him forever. In the fourth novel he kisses Sansa passionately several times, and once touches her breasts; in the fifth novel, Cersei recalls that he offered to wed Sansa, but was denied because he was much too lowborn. Nevertheless, Littlefinger does not let his personal desires 
interfere with his plans.
Unlike in the show, Littlefinger and Lysa are married at the Fingers, because Lysa insists that they do that without delay. Littlefinger does not like the idea and tries to persuade Lysa to hold the wedding in public, at the Eyrie and in presence of Lysa's whole court (in order to make the Vale lords acknowledge his new position), but Lysa is too stubborn.
It is unknown whether Littlefinger has planned in advance to dispose of Lysa and seized the opportunity to do that, or it was a spontaneous decision. Either way, the timing of the murder (not the murder itself) has posed him a problem: he has not been married to Lysa long enough to establish his position as the Lord Protector of the Vale in the eyes of the local lords.
Soon afterward, Lord Nestor Royce comes to inquire about Lysa's death and is satisfied by Littlefinger's smooth lies that it was Marillion. At that occasion, Sansa shivers with fear, especially when Littlefinger says brazenly "it was I who killed her" (as if talking metaphorically), but Littlefinger gets away with the murder.
Lord Yohn Royce and other lords of the Vale (known as "Lords Declarant"), who scornfully consider Littlefinger an outsider upstart, intend to oust him from the Vale and assume the rearing and training of Robert (Robin Arryn's name in the novels). They inform Cersei about their intentions. Littlefinger can request military assistance from Cersei but does not: he sends her a letter, asking for some old tapestries and barely mentions the lords who oppose him. Cersei thinks it over and answers the lords of the Vale that the crown is content with whatever dispositions they may make for the governance of the Vale during Robert Arryn's minority, providing that no harm happens to Littlefinger.
Yohn Royce and five of the most powerful lords of the Vale come to the Eyrie, demanding that Littlefinger leave the Vale and give them custody over Robert. Littlefinger manipulates them into giving him a trial period of one year on his wardship over Robert. Later, he explains to Sansa that in one year, five of those lords either will die or be bribed by him. Lord Royce is the only serious obstacle, but so long as he stands alone - he is not so much a threat.
Littlefinger does not leave the Vale. Instead, he spends his time making contacts and attempting to win over lords of the Vale, the neutral ones and those who oppose him. So far, he has managed to draw three of the six Lords Declarant to his side: Symond Templeton, Benedar Belmore and Anya Waynwood.
Littlefinger explains his plan to Sansa: after Robert dies (his health is so poor that he will probably die within a few years), she will wed his heir Ser Harrold Hardyng. Sansa reminds Littlefinger she is married and he answers "The dwarf wed Ned Stark's daughter, not mine. Be that as it may. This is only a betrothal. The marriage must needs wait until Cersei is done and Sansa's safely widowed." At the wedding, Sansa will reveal her true identity; every knight in the Vale will pledge his sword to win back her birthright and that way she will take over both the Vale and the North.
Littlefinger is still alive by the point the books reached.
Whereas in the series Littlefinger's goals are more transparent (sitting on the Iron Throne), this is not the case of the novels. As Littlefinger is only seen through the POV of other characters (Eddard, Catelyn, Sansa, Tyrion), his ultimate objective remains a mystery. Likewise, his rivalry with Varys was developed for the show.
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Petyr Baelish" is pronounced "PEE-ter BAY-lish", i.e. like the normal given name "Peter."
Theon Greyjoy, ward of Lord Eddard Stark.
A ward is a member of a noble house who has been taken in by another noble family to be raised for a time. The practice varies, with it sometimes being undertaken voluntarily, for example, to help prospective heirs learn the customs of other regions of Westeros as part of their education. It can also happen involuntarily, with the "ward" actually being a hostage to force his or her family into good behavior or until a ransom is paid. Sometimes, as part of marriage alliances, one of the betrothed is taken as a ward so he or she can get to know his or her future spouse.
In cases of wards who are political hostages, because they are of noble blood and valuable in the peace agreement, they are not treated as mere prisoners to be thrown in a castle's dungeons. Such wards are treated with full courtly etiquette as noble guests, and quite often are treated as essentially foster children of their "captor". Such hostage-wards are given free run of the castle they are staying in, eat at the lord's table, and are essentially raised alongside the lord's own children. The only limit is that they are forbidden to leave the bounds of their host's lands and return to their original homes.
While wards fall under the Lord's protection as a member of his household, their relationship is not technically seen as enjoying benefits of guest right, particularly for wards who are political hostages. Thus Theon Greyjoy was not accused of violating guest right when he betrayed the Starks, which would have been a far worse crime.
Prince Daeron Targaryen is the ward of his maternal relatives, House Hightower, in Oldtown.
Following the death of her mother Laena Velaryon, and the presumed death of her uncle Laenor Velaryon, Baela Targaryen is raised as the ward of her grandmother, Princess Rhaenys Targaryen, on Driftmark.
Littlefinger reminisces with Eddard Stark about how the latter's brother injured him in a duel fought for the honor of Catelyn Tully while he was a ward of Catelyn's father.
Theon Greyjoy was given up by his father and surrendered to the custody of Eddard Stark]following Balon's failed rebellion, which ended with the deaths of his two elder sons, Rodrik and Maron. Although Theon was raised and educated by the Starks and treated well, he was nevertheless a hostage as well as a ward, something that rankles with him when Tyrion taunts him over the matter.
Following the arrest and execution of her father, Sansa becomes a ward and hostage of Queen Cersei Lannister.
As part of a marriage alliance arranged by Tyrion, Myrcella is taken to Sunspear as a ward of House Martell so she will get to know her betrothed, Prince Trystane Martell.
Robin Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie, is left by Littlefinger to be fostered at Runestone by Lord Yohn Royce.
As a ward is theoretically a member of his host family, he can give away a bride from his host family if her father or brothers cannot. As such, Theon gives away Sansa to be married to Ramsay Bolton.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, wardship or fostering is seen as an honorable and common tradition. The ward is an honorary member of the House for the duration of his or her stay, including having a raised social status if he or she is from a lesser House. Fostering frequently results in close ties and sometimes alliances being formed between Houses from different sides of the continent. Most notably, Eddard Stark first met Robert Baratheon when they were both wards of Lord Jon Arryn of the Eyrie, leading to their lifelong friendship and an alliance between their Houses.
Jon Arryn intended to have his son Robert fostered by Stannis Baratheon (other characters claim that Robert was to be fostered by Tywin Lannister). Although this plan was totally in keeping with expectations for noble boys in Westeros, the mentally unstable Lysa could not bear the idea of being separated from her son, and this (along with Littlefinger's motivation) led her to kill her husband.
In real life, it has been common practice throughout history for defeated lords to hand over one of their children as a hostage to be raised as the ward of a victorious lord. The hostages were treated well according to their social rank, but kept as a guarantee that should the defeated party break the truce, their children could be easily killed. The practice dates back to ancient history and there are numerous examples from the time of the Roman Empire, e.g. Aetius, the last great Roman general who lived during the fifth century and defeated Attila the Hun, knew Hun battle tactics because he had been raised as a political hostage at the Hun court. The practice of handing over hostages to be raised as wards was also commonly used in the Middle Ages, and even into the Early Modern era.
Theon Greyjoy was the youngest son of King Balon Greyjoy of the Iron Islands and the younger brother of Rodrik, Maron, and Yara Greyjoy.
Following his father's failed rebellion against the Iron Throne, Theon is taken as a ward (initially hostage) to Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell. After Eddard's execution in King's Landing, Theon pledges his loyalty to Eddard's eldest son, King Robb Stark, in the subsequent War of the Five Kings, but ultimately betrays Robb and sides with his father in invading the North. Theon takes Winterfell from Robb's brother, Bran, but eventually is betrayed by his own men, which leads to his capture by House Bolton. He is tortured and forced into servitude by Ramsay Snow, who turns him into a broken pet named Reek. Theon, however, redeems himself by helping Ramsay's wife (and Robb's sister), Sansa Stark, escape from Winterfell and find refuge with her "half-brother" Jon Snow. The two later retake Winterfell, defeating Ramsay and House Bolton.
Slowly returning to his former self, Theon returns to the Iron Islands, where he learns of his father's death at the hands of his uncle, Euron Greyjoy, who is later elected King of the Iron Islands via Kingsmoot. In retaliation, Theon flees with Yara to seek out an alliance with Daenerys Targaryen in Meereen, where they pledge their forces to her. Despite abandoning Yara during the assault on the Targaryen fleet, he later appeals to the remaining ironborn on Dragonstone to rescue her from Euron's custody, a mission they complete successfully. While Yara sails to retake the Iron Islands, Theon returns to Winterfell with a group of ironborn to fight for House Stark in the Great War. Theon perishes defending Bran from the Night King during the Battle of Winterfell, redeeming himself at last.
Theon was the youngest son of Lord Balon and Lady Alannys Greyjoy. Balon is the head of House Greyjoy and Lord of the Iron Islands. The Iron Islands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Greyjoy is one of the Great Houses of the realm. House Greyjoy rule the region from their seat at Pyke and Balon also holds the title Lord Reaper of Pyke.
Theon becomes Ned Stark's ward after his father's failed rebellion.
Theon was born at Pyke. He is Balon and Alannys's fourth child after Rodrik, Maron, and Yara. Eight years before the start of the series Balon rose in rebellion against the Iron Throne. The ironborn were crushed in a war led by King Robert Baratheon and Lord Eddard Stark. Theon's brothers were both killed in the fighting. Balon surrendered and was allowed to remain Lord of the Iron Islands on the condition that Theon remains a hostage and ward of Eddard Stark. Theon's sister Yara remained on the Iron Islands. Despite his status as a hostage at Winterfell, Theon was treated well by the Starks, and he came to see Eddard as a surrogate father while becoming best friends with Robb Stark and forming a friendly rivalry with Jon Snow. Theon is a skilled archer. His cocky arrogance and cavalier actions contrast with the staid ways of the North.
Theon passes the Stark greatsword, Ice, to Lord Eddard Stark.
Theon is present during the execution of Will, a deserter from the Night's Watch. He holds the scabbard of Ice, the greatsword of House Stark, as Lord Eddard Stark draws it to behead the condemned man. On the way back to Winterfell, the party finds a disemboweled stag dead in the road. Looking for the killer, they find a dead female direwolf and five pups huddled by the corpse for warmth. A broken piece of the dead stag's antler is embedded in the direwolf's neck. Eddard initially insists the pups be given a quick death, which Theon cavalierly moves to carry out himself, upsetting Bran and angering Robb.
Theon, Jon and Robb talk about Queen Cersei as they prepare for the royal party.
However, Jon Snow tells his father that this is an omen as there are five pups and five trueborn Stark children. Eddard consents to allowing his children to adopt the pups. Just as the party leaves, Jon finds a sixth pup, an albino. Theon mockingly declares him the runt of the litter and that he belongs to Jon. Later, Robb, Jon, and Theon get shaves and haircuts, as they ponder the impending arrival of the royal party, notably the reputation of Queen Cersei Lannister as a great beauty and the poor reputation of Prince Joffrey Baratheon.
After the royal party's departure, an assassin attempts to kill Bran, who had fallen during one of his climbs and remained comatose. Theon learns that Catelyn has found evidence implicating the Lannisters in Bran's 'accident' and the failed assassination. Theon and Robb suggest taking revenge through military action, but Maester Luwin counsels patience. Catelyn and Ser Rodrik Cassel depart for King's Landing, leaving Robb in command of the castle. Theon is present when Robb frostily receives Tyrion Lannister on his way back from the Wall. Afterwards, as Tyrion is leaving to stay in a brothel, Theon condescendingly tells him to ask for Ros. Tyrion ridicules Theon for his family's failed uprising, calling it "a stupid rebellion", and ponders how Balon Greyjoy would feel about his last living son being the Starks' "lackey." While boasting about his family's exploits and heritage, he is put down by Maester Luwin. He reacts angrily to a further insult from his favorite prostitute, Ros, after sneaking her into the castle to engage her services.
Theon prepares to kill Osha.
Theon and Robb exchange views over the matter of Jory Cassel's death and the growing Stark-Lannister animosity in King's Landing. Robb brusquely reminds Theon that he is not a Stark. Bran is taken prisoner by wildlings in the forest near Winterfell and Theon saves him by shooting Stiv, the wildling leader, in the back with an arrow. Robb is angry at him, as Bran could have been hurt. Theon counters that he just saved Bran's life, and Robb was too hesitant to kill. Taking pride in his action, Theon says that you're "only considered a real man in the Iron Islands once you've killed your first enemy."
Theon attempts to seduce Osha.
With the departure of Ros for King's Landing, Theon is left at the castle and is bored. He accosts the surviving wildling prisoner, the spearwife Osha, as she is now a servant at Winterfell. Theon throws his weight around, insisting that she call him "my lord", even though his father still holds the title. He is warned off by Maester Luwin who reminds Theon that he of all people should know that being a guest and a prisoner are not necessarily mutually exclusive.
Robb summons his banners to war when word comes of Lord Eddard's arrest. Theon tells Robb that it is good that he is afraid because it shows he is not stupid. As Theon dines with Robb and his bannermen later after they arrive at Winterfell, he witnesses Greatjon Umber threatening to withdraw his men from the host when Robb refuses to let him lead the vanguard. Robb counters the Greatjon by saying he is welcome to do so but as soon as he is finished with the Lannisters, he will march back North to route the Greatjon from his keep and hang him for an oathbreaker. As the Greatjon moves to draw a weapon, Theon rises from his chair to defend Robb but Grey Wind darts down the table and bites off two of the Greatjon's fingers. When Robb mercifully offers the Greatjon drew his weapon to cut his meat for him, the Greatjon calls his meat "bloody tough", which draws laughter from the rest of the men including Theon. As the northern army marches south, Theon advises Robb at strategy meetings and greets Catelyn when the army meets her on the road. When a Lannister scout is captured, Theon obscures their maps and battle plans, to Greatjon Umber's amusement.
Robb and Theon intercept Walder Frey's messages.
Reaching the Twins, Theon shoots down several ravens leaving the castle bearing messages from Lord Walder Frey, allowing Catelyn to negotiate an alliance. He is present when Catelyn returns to inform her son of the terms set by Lord Walder, one of which is that Robb must marry one of his many female progeny. Theon chuckles when Robb asks his mother if she got a look at them, and her tone suggests they are not very attractive. Theon later fights alongside Robb at the Battle of the Whispering Wood, where Jaime Lannister is taken prisoner.
Theon swears fealty to Robb.
Theon suggests that they kill Jaime and send his head to his father Tywin, but Robb refuses, fearing that Sansa and Arya will be harmed in retaliation. When Robb laments the loss of 2,000 of his men in the feint at the Battle of the Green Fork, Theon assures him that songs will be sung of their bravery. Robb responds that they will not hear them. After news arrives of Eddard's execution, Robb Stark is proclaimed the King in the North by his lords bannermen. Theon asks first if they are brothers, now and always. When Robb's answer is yes, Theon swears his sword and fealty to Robb's service, proclaiming Robb as his King.
Theon appeals to Robb to seek an alliance with his father, Balon Greyjoy, reasoning that Robb needs a fleet to attack King's Landing, and confident that Balon will listen to him. Despite Catelyn's reservations that Balon Greyjoy cannot be trusted, Robb sends Theon home to Pyke as his envoy.
Theon unknowingly attempts to seduce his own sister.
Theon seduces the daughter of the ship's captain and tells her about how he will be welcomed home. He is deflated at the lack of a reception for his return, resorting to bribing, despite his status. His sister, Yara, poses as a stranger and offers to give him a ride to the castle. She wants to see what Theon has grown up to be. He flirts with her relentlessly, even touching her almost intimately and brags about his own importance.
Balon greets Theon coolly, believing that he has forgotten his roots and become loyal to the Starks in his time away. He insults Theon's fine clothes given to him by the Starks, and is furious when Theon tells him that Robb thinks of him as a brother. Yara reveals her deception and Balon compares Theon to his sister unfavorably. Balon rejects the alliance Theon suggests and is insulted that Theon thought he would accept being given a crown. He reminds Theon that they pay the iron price and take what they want.
Theon prepares to attack the North.
Balon reveals that he plans to attack the North while it is poorly defended. Balon gives Yara a fleet of thirty ships to take Deepwood Motte and insults Theon by giving him a lesser mission to raid fishing villages on the Stony Shore, with only a single ship. Theon considers informing Robb of the plot but decides that his loyalty lies with his family. Having decided to betray House Stark he is baptized in the name of the Drowned God as Balon and Yara watch. He takes command of the Sea Bitch but finds his crew unruly. His first mate Dagmer tells him that he must prove himself to the men and that ironborn do not follow orders. Theon senses the opportunity to attack Torrhen's Square to lure the Stark garrison away from Winterfell.
Theon tells Bran to yield Winterfell
His plan is successful and Theon has his men seize the poorly defended Winterfell. He forces Bran Stark to yield to him by threatening his people. His men capture Ser Rodrik Cassel coming back from Torrhen's Square, and Rodrik is openly defiant, calling Theon a traitor. Ser Rodrik regrets that he gave him weapon training and even spits in Theon's face. Dagmer insists that Rodrik must be killed to maintain the respect of the men. Rodrik baits Theon into performing the execution himself. Theon botches the beheading, taking three swings and a vicious kick to accomplish it, to the horror of Bran and the watching crowd.
Theon is seduced by Osha in her plan to escape.
Theon is seduced by Osha, who Theon grants her freedom to in return for her sexual service. She then frees Bran and Rickon, fleeing with them while Theon sleeps. When Theon wakes the next day, he is told that Bran and Rickon have escaped. He is angry at his men for allowing the children and the simpleminded Hodor to escape. Black Lorren implies that Theon is actually to blame for their escape by allowing himself to be seduced by Osha. Theon, in turn, responds to this insolence by publicly beating Lorren.
Theon displays two corpses above Winterfell.
Despite his attempts, Theon is unable to find the escapees. Unwilling to appear weak, he has Dagmer murder two boys, Jack and Billy, from a farm and burn their bodies. Unknown to Theon, Osha led Bran and Rickon into the Winterfell crypts after realizing that Theon would never give up the chase. Theon displays the corpses of Jack and Billy at Winterfell and claims they were Bran and Rickon. Theon sends word to Yara to bring him 500 men as reinforcements.
Yara demands Theon's return to the Iron Islands.
She arrives with just twenty men and warns him that everyone in the North wants him dead because of his killing of the Stark boys, and he is too far from the sea to supply or reinforce his position. Yara tells him about how she remembers him as a child, demanding but sweet. She urges him to abandon Winterfell, return to the Iron Islands, and not to die so far from his home, but he refuses to give up his prize. Feeling some guilt over the deaths of the two farms boys, his asks Dagmer to pay the farmer for his grief. Dagmer tells Theon that after killing the orphans, he also murdered the farmer and his wife.
Winterfell is later surrounded by Northmen under the command of Ramsay Snow, who infuriates Theon by blowing a horn all through the night. Besieged with no hope for relief, Theon tearfully vents his frustration to Maester Luwin at being constantly reminded by everyone, including Luwin himself, how fortunate he was to be a prisoner of the Starks. Assuming a more sympathetic tone, Luwin advises Theon to flee to the Wall and join the Night's Watch so that he might save his life and attempt to redeem himself, adding he knows Theon is not the ruthless man he is pretending to be.
Dagmer prepares to strike as Theon finishes his speech
Theon owes to Luwin that he has done terrible things in his futile attempts to gain power and respect but he refuses to deviate from the course he has set, saying he has gone too far to ever pretend to be anyone else, and also adds that Jon Snow will likely kill him in revenge for allegedly killing Bran and Rickon. He readies his men for a glorious death in battle, giving a rousing speech, but is betrayed and knocked out by Dagmer, who plans to turn him over to the northern forces so the rest of them can go home. Luwin attempts to aid Theon but is stabbed in the abdomen by Dagmer, who then has Theon dragged away with his head covered by a cloth bag.
Theon is imprisoned and tortured at the Dreadfort.
Roose Bolton's bastard son Ramsay Snow has been sent to secure Winterfell from the ironborn and bring Theon back to Robb Stark alive. However, Roose plans to double-cross Robb and after the ironborn turn on Theon and surrender themselves to Snow's forces, he has them all killed and secretly captures Theon. Theon is imprisoned at the Dreadfort, although Theon is unaware where he is. Bound to a rack, he is repeatedly tortured by a group of men, some of whom are dressed in the garb of Greyjoy men. One of them pries off Theon's fingernails with a knife while the others drive a screw through his foot.
Theon is left on the torture cross by Ramsay.
After enduring extensive torture, Theon is given some reprieve. Ramsay Snow deceives Theon, claiming he is a servant and approaches him and claims he's been sent by Yara to rescue him, before leaving Theon, placing the cloth bag over his head for the night. Before dawn, Ramsay returns and cuts Theon free and provides him with water and a mount. Ramsay advises Theon to keep heading east where Yara is waiting for him. Theon says he'll make the boy a lord of the Iron Islands for his actions. The boy replies, "We're not in the Iron Islands."
The lead torturer intent on raping Theon.
As Theon rides east, an arrow narrowly misses his head, and Theon sees that his captors are following him. After a harrowing chase the former Prince of Winterfell is knocked from his horse by a blow from a flail. The men hold Theon in place as the leading torturer prepares to rape him. Theon's pleas for them to stop fall on deaf ears but then the leader is pierced by an arrow. Ramsay has returned and swiftly kills all his men. Ramsay helps Theon to his feet and tells him to come with him, because he is far from home and winter is coming.
Ramsay manipulatively leads Theon back into the Dreadfort.
After rescuing him the boy promises Theon to take him to Deepwood Motte to see Yara. When Theon questions his savior, Ramsay lies that he is ironborn as well, growing up on Saltcliffe, and he witnessed Theon being shipped off to Winterfell. Some time later the men reach a holdfast, and Theon questions why they have to sneak inside when surely Yara's men are loyal to her. Ramsay warns Theon that some of the men belong to his father Balon, who wants him dead. As Ramsay struggles to open a locked gate Theon confesses his sins. He wanted desperately to impress his father but he knows now that Eddard Stark was his true father. After opening the gate Theon and Ramsay enter a darkened room. The youth lights a torch and much to Theon's horror he's back in the same torture chamber in the Dreadfort. Armed men enter and Ramsay claims that Theon killed their comrades and escaped but he has brought their captive back. Kicking and screaming, Theon is refastened to the rack.
Ramsay plays mind games with Theon.
Theon is awakened by the ringing of a trumpet. Ramsay 'begs pardon' for rousing his guest. Theon tries to mumble something but fails. Ramsay understands his prisoner requires water but pours it out all over the dungeon floor to further torment him. Ramsay proposes a game to pass the time and he asks the heir to Pyke which body part he does not need. Hearing this Theon vows to tell his captor all he wishes to know. The cruel boy merely mocks him stating that Theon already told him everything of value. Ramsay goes on saying that he realizes Theon wants to know who he is and why he is being tortured.
Ramsay flays Theon's finger.
The young man makes a proposal: If Theon guesses correctly who he actually is Theon is the victor, but if Theon begs his tormentor to remove his finger he wins. Theon then asks if winning said game will secure his release. Ramsay then mocks Theon's naïveté stating there is no happy ending in store for him. Theon does guess correctly that he is still in the North. However when the former prince of Winterfell supposes that Ramsay is a son of Rickard Karstark he is revealed to be wrong. Ramsay slowly flays his captive's finger stating that Theon first should have asked if he was a liar. Theon begs for the finger to be cut off which delights Ramsay since Ramsay has won the 'game'.
Theon is later released from the cross by two beautiful young women, Myranda and Violet. They put Theon to bed and they then proceed to fondle him sensually. Both have heard that the heir to Pyke is well endowed and are hoping to get firsthand experience. Theon is distrustful at first fearing that this is another of his tormentor's tricks. When they disrobe and straddle him, Theon's resolve to resist weakens. Suddenly the familiar horn sounds and Ramsay enters, revealing that Myranda and Violet are two of his bedwarmers. He too has heard how large his prisoner's penis is and surmises it is Theon's favorite body part. When the sadistic Ramsay brandishes a hooked knife Theon realizes Ramsay means to castrate him. Horrified, Theon begs for mercy, but Ramsay quips that this is mercy as he is not killing, but merely altering Theon. Two men restrain Theon as Ramsay proceeds to geld him, knocking him out in the process, after which he is castrated.
Theon later wakes in his strung up position while Ramsay eats a long plump sausage nearby and motions to Theon's blood-stained, badly sewn-up trousers, momentarily tricking Theon into thinking it is his penis he is eating. Ramsay mocks him as he laughs about his severed penis and wonders if Theon will have phantom feelings for his lost body part if he goes near any pretty women. Theon finally begs Ramsay to kill him as an escape from the nightmare, but Ramsay tells him he is much more valuable to him alive.
Ramsay renames Theon "Reek."
He renames him "Reek" (because he smells bad) and demands that Theon say that his name is Reek. With an angry look, Theon says his name is Theon Greyjoy, prompting Ramsay to punch him and ask again, and again, smirking slightly, he says his name is Theon Greyjoy. Ramsay hits him harder, grabs his head and screams the same question. This time, Theon gives in and says his that name is Reek. As Ramsay returns to his table satisfied, Theon weeps silently over his lost pride.
Theon's father receives a package from Ramsay.
Ramsay sends Theon's severed penis to his family in Pyke with a letter detailing his Sack of Winterfell and his demand that the ironborn withdraw from the North or Ramsay will send them more of Theon's body parts. Balon refuses to surrender, saying that Theon was a fool for disobeying his orders and attacking Winterfell and that, as his castration means that he is no longer capable of producing heirs, he has no value whatsoever. However, Yara defies her father and prepares the fastest ship in the fleet and the strongest men on the Iron Islands to sail on the Dreadfort and rescue Theon.
Theon, now going by the name Reek, has been freed from his restraints, but on the condition that he work for Ramsay as a servant. Because of his torture and emasculation by Ramsay, Theon is now mentally weakened and offers no resistance to his new lord. He accompanies Ramsay and Myranda on their hunt for Tansy, however he struggles to keep up with them due to his injuries. When Myranda brings down Tansy with an arrow to the leg Ramsay asks Reek if it was a good shot. Reek calls it a fine shot while addressing Ramsay as "Master" and Myranda as "My Lady." Reek watches in silent horror when Ramsay orders his pack of hounds to maul Tansy to pieces.
Ramsay asks Reek about what remains of House Stark.
Ramsay brings Reek before Ramsay's father, Roose Bolton. Roose is angered that Ramsay has damaged a valuable hostage, whom he intended to trade for the ironborn-occupied Moat Cailin. To demonstrate their captive's submissiveness, Ramsay orders Reek to shave him. Reek reveals to Roose that he did not murder Bran and Rickon Stark, and that they may be with their half-brother Jon Snow at Castle Black. Ramsay then reveals to Reek that Robb Stark is dead, and was stabbed through the heart by Roose. Reek holds the razor at Ramsay's neck briefly but continues shaving. When Roose orders Locke to find and kill the Stark boys, the latter asks Ramsay if his "pet rat" has any thoughts on where they went. Without saying a word, Ramsay orders Reek to answer Locke's question by simply giving him a look. Reek sadly tells him that they may be with Jon Snow at Castle Black.
Yara, along with a group of ironborn, infiltrates the Dreadfort to rescue her brother, only to find him in one of the kennels. Believing that this may be another one of Ramsay's tricks, Reek desperately refuses to abandon his master, refusing to be Theon Greyjoy and screaming to be left alone, insisting that he is Reek. Soon Ramsay arrives with a group of Northmen. As the two sides fight each other, Reek keeps resisting to be taken and bites Yara's hand to return to his cage. Yara escapes after being rejected and Ramsay unleashing his hounds at her. As a reward for his demonstration of loyalty, Ramsay offers Reek a bath, though Reek is hesitant to remove his clothing, due to the many scars of his torture and his earlier castration. After Reek gets into the tub, Ramsay cleans his servant himself and demands a demonstration of Reek's love: his help to get a castle back. Reek's task is to masquerade as Theon Greyjoy.
Ramsay reminds Theon of his scheme.
Outside of Moat Cailin, Ramsay goes over Reek's mission with him one last time: he is to enter Moat Cailin under the guise of Theon Greyjoy, prince of the Iron Islands, and attempt to negotiate with the ironborn garrison holding it in an attempt to convince them to surrender the fortress to the Boltons. Reek rides up to the fortress gate, and almost blows his cover when asked to identify himself, yet manages to regain his composure and convince the ironborn to let him to enter.
Reek enters the ruined fortress of Moat Cailin under the guise of his former self.
Upon riding into Moat Cailin, Reek finds it in a state of death and decay, littered with corpses and the few remaining men ravaged by disease and exhaustion. He introduces himself as Prince Theon and truthfully informs the ironborn that he has been a prisoner of House Bolton and has been sent to Moat Cailin as their envoy. He reads the terms that House Bolton has laid out for the ironborn, promising them safe passage home if they peacefully surrender Moat Cailin.
Reek pleases Ramsay by helping the Boltons retake Moat Cailin.
However, Ralf Kenning, the garrison commander of the ironborn, decries Reek's words as those of a "whipped dog" and that he is no true ironborn, nearly causing Reek to become unnerved and drop his facade. However, Reek is saved when one of Kenning's own men suddenly buries an axe in his head and accepts Reek's terms of surrender. However, the ironborn are promptly massacred and flayed by Ramsay and his men after they surrender. Ramsay reveals to Theon that he never intended to let the ironborn go, and congratulates him by patting him.
In the aftermath, Ramsay meets with his father and presents him with the Greyjoy banner that was flying over the fortress. In recognition, Roose presents Ramsay with a decree of legitimization, making him officially a member of House Bolton. Delighted at the knowledge he will succeed his father as Warden of the North, Ramsay and Reek accompany Roose's army as it approaches the ruins of Winterfell, with Ramsay gleefully informing Reek that he's ready for a hot bath.
Reek avoiding Sansa.
Reek walks through the partially-repaired Winterfell and is clearly shaken when he sees freshly flayed corpses being hung on the castle walls, which reminds him of the burned corpses of Jack and Billy. Later, while Ramsay and Roose Bolton discuss their delicate position as the new Wardens of the North, Reek serves them their food. When his childhood friend, Sansa Stark, arrives in Winterfell, Reek watches her arrival from a distance. Later, as Sansa explores the courtyard, Reek avoids her but appears to be struggling not to call out to her.
Later, while sleeping in the kennels, Reek is accosted by Sansa, who had been led there by Myranda. Reek shakes his head at her and tells her she shouldn't be there. Ramsay later confronts Reek about how Sansa approached him and chastises him for keeping it a secret from him. Though he seems like he will punish Reek, he ultimately forgives him. As the Boltons eat, Ramsay first coerces Reek into apologizing to Sansa for allegedly murdering Bran and Rickon. He then suggests that Reek should walk Sansa down the altar at their coming wedding with the rest of her family allegedly dead, which visibly angers Sansa and discomforts Reek.
Theon escorts Sansa to her wedding.
On the night of the wedding, Reek, once again assuming his previous identity as Theon Greyjoy, arrives to escort Sansa to Ramsay, though Sansa, still angry with him, refuses to allow Theon to hold her arm, even when Theon claims Ramsay will punish him. Theon walks Sansa through the Godswood to the Heart tree and gives the bride away. After the wedding, Theon leads Sansa and Ramsay to their new chambers, but Ramsay orders Theon to remain with them to watch what is to come.
Reek watches as Ramsay begins to rape Sansa.
Having personally been on the receiving end of Ramsay's brutality, Theon tries to look away, but Ramsay repeats the order, and Theon is forced to watch, which he does. Theon is visibly horrified as he watches Ramsay rape his childhood friend, making her cry, and silently cries himself. Though Theon is still too weak to intervene, a brief flash of anger spreads across his face.
A few days later, Reek brings Sansa her breakfast, closing the window when he notices her shivering in bed. When Sansa realizes Reek is there, she tries to talk to him and get him to help her. Reek continues to deny that he is Theon, until Sansa accuses him of betraying her family, and reminds him that he is Theon Greyjoy, son and heir of Balon Greyjoy, Lord of the Iron Islands, and that he can redeem himself by lighting a candle in the broken tower in order to signal Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne to come and rescue her. Though Reek takes the candle, he reluctantly informs Ramsay of Sansa's plan in order to spare her further pain should it fail, but it is implied during his conversation with Sansa that his original personality of Theon Greyjoy is slowly beginning to resurface.
When Reek next brings Sansa breakfast, she confronts him about why he revealed her plan to Ramsay, and he responds that it was to protect her, since he has found out there is no escape from Ramsay: as Theon Greyjoy, he tried numerous times, but Ramsay always found him and took away pieces of him until there was nothing left of Theon anymore, only Reek. Sansa coldly expresses approval, adding that if she could do what Ramsay did to him all over again, she would.
Theon tells Sansa about Bran and Rickon.
Reek shamefully owes to her that he deserved it as he did terrible things, specifically killing "those boys." Enraged by his reference seemingly to her brothers as "those boys" rather than Bran and Rickon, Sansa vehemently demands to know why they should be dead while he still breathes the air, forcing Reek to finally admit that they were not Bran and Rickon, but two farm boys. In light of this admission, Sansa's anger towards Reek cools, but when she presses him as to where they might have gone, calling him Theon again, he breaks down and runs out the room, crying, "Not Theon! Reek!"
Theon and Sansa prepare to jump.
When Sansa finally succeeds in breaking out of her room and lighting the candle in the tower, she is confronted by Reek and Myranda on the catwalks, with Myranda pointing a bow at her. Reek begs Sansa not to resist, but Sansa welcomes her fate. However, when Myranda claims that she will spare Sansa and merely maim her, Reek remembers the role Myranda played in his castration. Unwilling to let Sansa suffer the same fate, Reek grabs Myranda and pushes her off the catwalk to her death. Now Theon Greyjoy once again, he takes Sansa and they run when the Bolton cavalry arrives after defeating Stannis Baratheon at the Battle of Winterfell. With no other choice, and aware of what will come when Ramsay finds Myranda's body, Theon and Sansa jump from the parapet to the snow below.
Theon and Sansa making their escape.
Pursued by Ramsay's men and hounds, Theon and Sansa cross the river and take shelter, but their scent is picked up by the hounds. Theon urges Sansa to flee to her half-brother Jon Snow at Castle Black while he holds them off, but they see through his ruse and find Sansa. Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne arrive to fight the Bolton soldiers, and Theon kills the last one, saving Podrick's life. He witnesses Brienne pledge her service to Sansa, which this time she accepts.
As Brienne talks with Sansa, Theon overhears that she crossed paths with Arya, Sansa's sister, while gathering wood to help Podrick start a fire. Theon is wary of the fire, since it may alert Ramsay or his men. Sansa and Brienne decide to head to Castle Black to get to Jon, who will protect them from Ramsay, and though Sansa promises to tell Jon the truth about Bran and Rickon, Theon believes that Jon will still kill him for betraying Robb, executing Rodrik Cassel, and slaughtering Jack and Billy. Theon claims he does not want to be forgiven, even by joining the Night's Watch, and instead decides to return home, knowing that Sansa will be safer with Brienne and Podrick. Before his departure though, Sansa embraces Theon in gratitude for helping her escape Ramsay.
Yara confronts Theon on his betrayal.
Theon arrives at the Iron Islands and receives a harsh reception from Yara, who is still angry with him for refusing to be rescued from the Dreadfort, saying good men were lost that night. Weeping, he apologizes several times, but she doesn't want to hear it. She accuses him of trying to take advantage of their father's murder to become King of Pyke. Theon vehemently denies this, saying he had no idea Balon was dead until he arrived. She demands to know what he wants, and he says she deserves to be the ruler of Pyke and he will support her claim to the Salt Throne.
During the Kingsmoot, Theon stands before his fellow Ironborn when it is his turn to speak. Though he is visibly nervous, most likely because of his role in the surrender of Moat Cailin, he openly declares his support for Yara's claim to the Salt Throne; stating that she is a warrior, a reaver, and most importantly Ironborn. Choking back tears as he swallows what little pride he has left, Theon concludes, "This is our queen." Though his words prompt many men to declare their support for Yara, they are soon challenged by their uncle Euron Greyjoy, who condescendingly pats Theon on the cheek as Ramsay once did before belittling him for his past defeats and emasculation. Yara then accuses Euron of murdering their father. To their surprise, Euron admits to murdering Balon but claims that he did it because he was leading them to defeat and apologizes for not doing it years ago. Theon counters that would have been hard to do as Euron was off gallivanting on the high seas and having a grand old time, prompting his uncle to once again bring up his emasculation.
Theon and Yara flee from the Iron Islands to evade Euron's mad wrath.
Theon ignores his uncle's insult and reminds everyone that Euron had left, and meanwhile, Yara was leading Ironborn ships and men in battle. When Yara proposes building a massive fleet to conquer the mainland, Euron counters by offering to seal an alliance with Daenerys Targaryen in order to defeat the mainland lords. The crowd then elects Euron to be their next king. While Euron is being baptized by Aeron, Theon, his sister, and their supporters flee to Essos on the best ships in the Iron Fleet, knowing that Euron will kill them in order to cement his claim.
Theon Greyjoy returns.
Theon and Yara take the Iron Fleet to Volantis to hide and rest. While sheltering in Volantis, Theon and his sister visit a bar where the Ironborn are entertained by prostitutes. Theon is still traumatized by his ordeal with Ramsay and is also troubled by his guilt over his role in the deaths of the orphan boys. He also has little interest in the prostitutes and ale. Yara urges her brother to regain his self-confidence since she needs his help to travel to Slaver's Bay and secure an alliance with Daenerys. Yara plans to return to the Iron Islands and seek revenge against Euron, but tells Theon that if he's irreparably broken, he should kill himself and be done with it - but if he wishes to journey with her to Meereen, she needs the real Theon Greyjoy. At that moment, Theon fiercely locks eyes with Yara, a gaze reminiscent of his former, ironborn self. Pleased that Theon's old personality is resurfacing, she kisses him on the forehead and proceeds to go bed the prostitute she was fondling earlier.
Following the Second Siege of Meereen, Theon and Yara meet with Daenerys and Tyrion Lannister, who recognizes Theon from his visit to Winterfell years ago. Tyrion reminds Theon of how he teased the dwarf about his height and sees this as unbecoming of a noble, which Theon acknowledges was long ago. When Tyrion informs Daenerys about Theon's alleged role in the deaths of Bran and Rickon Stark, Theon insists that he did not, but he did commit other crimes, which he has paid for. Theon explains to Daenerys that Euron murdered their father, usurped the Salt Throne and would have killed them too had they not fled. He offers to provide Daenerys with a hundred ships in return for helping them eliminate Euron and recognizing the independence of the Iron Islands, on the basis that if Daenerys refuses them and accepts Euron's offer, Euron will kill her and rule the Seven Kingdoms himself, though Theon makes it clear that it is to support Yara's claim and not his, deeming himself unfit to rule, to Daenerys's surprise.
Theon and Yara pledge themselves to Dany.
Daenerys agrees to their terms in return that the Ironborn cease raiding, pillaging, and raping the mainlanders. Yara is reluctant at first but assents to the agreement when Theon gives her a nod. Some time later, Theon and Yara begin the voyage back to Westeros with Daenerys and her retinue, along with the Iron Fleet, the Dothraki, the Unsullied and the armies of House Tyrell and Dorne, with Ellaria Sand and Olenna Tyrell having heard of Theon and Yara's actions and followed them in declaring for Daenerys.
Theon and Yara attend Daenerys's council meeting.
Yara and Theon attend Daenerys's council meeting, after which, as part of Tyrion's plan to lay siege to King's Landing, Theon and Yara are tasked with escorting Ellaria Sand and the Sand Snakes back to Dorne. On the voyage back to Sunspear, Ellaria drinks Ironborn liquor with Yara and Theon, which she compares unfavorably to Dornish wine. Ellaria asks Yara if she had ever been to Dorne, to which Yara responds that she has been there a few times. Ellaria responds that there is a boy in every port in Dorne, which Yara responds, "A boy, a girl. Depends on the port." Yara and Ellaria begin to sexually flirt with each other. Yara tells Ellaria that Theon will serve as both her bodyguard and adviser. Yara puts her feet up on the table. Ellaria bends over Yara and spreads her legs apart across the table. Ellaria moves her hand up Yara's leg towards her crotch. Ellaria invites Theon to have a threesome with her and Yara, but Yara tells Ellaria to "Leave him be."
Theon and Yara witness their uncle's rampage.
While Yara and Ellaria began kissing, Yara's ship is struck. On the deck above, they discover that their fleet has been ambushed by Euron Greyjoy's portion of the Iron Fleet, lead by the imposing Silence, which is significantly larger than the Black Wind, ramming into it and using a levy to board Yara's forces. Despite fighting bravely and cutting down many of Euron's men, Theon watches helplessly as Euron takes Yara hostage, daring him to intervene. After witnessing the defeated soldiers being tortured and mutilated by Euron's men, Theon returns to his despondent state and jumps overboard. Upon surfacing, Theon can only watch as Euron's flagship sails away, having decimated their entire armada, and sees the corpses of Obara and Nymeria Sand impaled and hanging from the ship's bowsprit.
Theon is later rescued from the Narrow Sea by one of the few surviving ships loyal to Yara. When their captain, Harrag, questions him about Yara's fate, Theon claims that he tried to save her. An unimpressed Harrag chides Theon, begrudgingly telling him he would be dead if that were true.
Theon is confronted by Jon Snow upon his return to Dragonstone.
Theon later returns to Dragonstone and is shocked to be met on the beach by none other than Jon Snow; the two have not seen each other since Jon left Winterfell for the Wall, over six years ago. Theon hesitantly greets him and asks Jon if Sansa is all right; Jon angrily grabs him by the collar, saying that Theon saving Sansa from the Boltons is the only reason he won't kill him then and there for betraying House Stark in the first place. Theon informs Jon and Davos that Yara was taken captive by Euron and he needs Daenerys's help to get her back, only for Jon to tell him that she has left Dragonstone to carry out her own attack on the Lannister armies.
Theon stands in Dragonstone's throne room after talking with Jon.
Theon accompanies Jon's group to the meeting with Queen Cersei, where Euron attempts to force him to swear fealty in order to save Yara. Theon refuses, openly admitting Euron's own dwarf jokes to Tyrion aren't very good. Later, back at Dragonstone, Theon meets with Jon before he prepares to return to the North with Daenerys. As they reflect on their enmities, Theon admits he was conflicted between his birth family and the Starks, though Jon retorts that Ned was more of a father than Balon ever was. Jon assures Theon that he is both a Stark and a Greyjoy, encouraging him to rescue his sister from Euron.
Theon wins back the ironborn's support.
At the beach, Theon attempts to rally Yara's remaining supporters. However, Harrag refuses, chiding Theon as a coward for abandoning Yara. Theon fights Harrag, though the captain gains the upper hand and almost beats Theon to death when he refuses to stop. Unaware of Theon's castration at the hands of Ramsay, Harrag fails to injure Theon by kneeing him in the groin and is beat into submission. Finally earning the respect of the ironborn, Theon rallies them to rescue Yara, washing his bloodied face in the salt water before leaving.
Theon rescues Yara from the Silence.
While Euron is distracted in the Red Keep, with Queen Cersei Lannister finally giving in to his lust following the departure of her brother (and lover), Theon and his remaining ironborn sneak aboard the Silence. After silently murdering members of Euron's crew, they find Yara inside the ship. He awkwardly unties her before she hauls herself to her feet, proceeding to headbutt him, knocking him to the ground, due to his earlier abandonment of her. However, she then drags him to his feet, and the two share a mutual look of respect.
The two then make their escape, spanning their minimalist forces across Theon's three ships. While Yara expresses her desire to reclaim the Iron Islands, Theon is somewhat forlorn, despite Yara's promise of refuge from the threat of White Walkers on the mainland. Theon states that he will follow his Queen, but Yara recognizes he wants to fight in the North. Having done his duty to House Greyjoy, she lets him go.
Theon reunites with Sansa.
Theon makes it to Winterfell, where he is greeted by both Daenerys and Sansa. After he explains to Daenerys that Yara has sailed with her men to retake the Iron Islands from Euron in the name of House Targaryen, he asks permission from Sansa to fight for the North, and they share a hug as they are reunited. Theon later takes part in a meeting in preparation for the great battle to come, and announces that he will defend Bran Stark in the godswood, as reparation for having previously taken the castle from him. Theon is later seen sharing a hot drink with Sansa shortly before the army of the White Walkers arrives.
Theon protects Bran in the Godswood.
Theon is killed by the Night King; having redeemed himself in Bran's eyes.
In the Battle of Winterfell, Theon stands guard for Bran along with the Ironborn and several other soldiers. When the Wights attack, he fires several arrows with dragonglass arrowheads, but it does little to stop the onslaught. When the Night King arrives with several other White Walkers to kill Bran, Bran calls Theon a good man and thanks him, having redeemed himself. Knowing that there is no escaping death at this point, Theon chooses to die with dignity. He nods at the Night King, challenging him, the Night King steps forward and Theon charges at the him with a dragonglass spear. The Night King easily stops Theon and breaks his spear in half, then takes hold of the sharp end and stabs Theon through the stomach with it. Theon falls to the ground, and bleeds to death as the Night King makes his approach towards Bran. Theon's death was not in vain, however, as it bought just enough time for Arya Stark to arrive and kill the Night King, preventing Bran's death.
Sansa places a Stark pin on Theon's body before he is burned.
In the aftermath of the battle, Theon's body is retrieved and put on a funeral pyre. He is mourned by Sansa, who places a pin with the insignia of House Stark on his chest piece, as a sign of gratitude and recognition of what Theon did for Sansa and her family since they escaped from Ramsay. Theon's body is then burnt along with the thousand others who died in the battle against the dead.
Before his capture by Ramsay Snow, Theon is shown to be arrogant, narcissistic and vain, but fundamentally not malicious. For example, when he returned to the Iron Islands, he expected to receive a hero's welcome for being the only living heir of Balon Greyjoy. He was both baffled and offended that he did not receive such a welcome when he landed in Pyke. Also, in order to appear like a strong, accomplished young man, he would gloat over things in an almost ridiculous way - he gloated to Osha that he was the man who captured her, even though Robb Stark fought and captured her.
Beneath his confident exterior, however, Theon is insecure, weak, and unsure of himself. This stems particularly from his conflicted family allegiances. After his father's failed rebellion against Robert Baratheon, he was taken from Pyke when he was nine years old to be raised at Winterfell by the Stark family as their ward/hostage. Even though he grew up alongside the Stark children - Robb Stark and Theon considered each other best friends - Theon never forgot that he was an outsider since he was not of their blood, and would be executed if his father tried to rebel again. This outsider status weighed heavily on Theon, demonstrated when Ros and Tyrion Lannister mention it.
This insecurity eventually leads him to question which is his true family: the Starks or the Greyjoys. When Robb sends Theon to Pyke to convince his father Balon and sister Yara to help the Starks fight against the Lannisters, Balon and Yara are initially successful in using their family bond to sway Theon to their side to instead fight the Starks and not aid them against the Lannisters. Even though Theon agrees to go along with his father's plan, this still causes a great deal of conflict in Theon and he almost warns Robb of Balon's plan before deciding against it. Theon tries to become a ruthless ironborn raider to gain his biological father's approval and find a true home but the conscience that he developed living with the Starks makes it difficult for him to live up to these expectations. When he seizes Winterfell, he promises Bran that no one will be harmed if Bran surrenders - which is something an honorable northerner would promise but no true ironborn would ever do - but minutes later, Theon shatters his promise by beheading Ser Rodrik Cassel when Cassel spits in his face, an unforgivable act among the ironborn. In his time "ruling" Winterfell Theon mostly acts reckless and impulsive, attempting to keep order with iron hand desperate to not look as a fool at the eyes of his family and his own men.
The seizure of Winterfell shows that Theon has tactical skills, but also that, like his father, he is a total ignorant in strategy. He fails to consider what Yara explains him very bluntly: that Winterfell is surrounded by hostile forces and too far from the sea, thus the ironborn garrison cannot be reinforced and eventually will be destroyed. Yara urges Theon to leave Winterfell, but he foolishly insists to keep his "prize", refusing to understand how poor his position is.
Even throughout Theon's "rule" of Winterfell, he is shown to be in a constant battle with himself, implying he knows deep down that invading his childhood home for his father was far from the right thing to do. Maester Luwin even points out to Theon that all of this is just an act to live up to his father's expectations and that Theon himself must know that his betrayal at Winterfell is wrong. Theon resignedly admits to Luwin that he is correct, but that he can't stop because he has already come too far to be forgiven, and refuses to join the Night's Watch, where all of his crimes would be forgiven, out of shame (and partially out of fear that Jon Snow might kill him in retribution for allegedly murdering Bran and Rickon). It is only after Theon becomes a prisoner of the Boltons and realizes that his father has no intention of rescuing him that he admits to himself and to Ramsay Snow that Ned Stark was his "real father" and laments Ned's execution in King's Landing.
After being tortured by Ramsay Snow in the dungeons of the Dreadfort for over a year, Theon's original personality has been seemingly obliterated, and he is little more than a broken and half-insane prisoner. Among various tortures, Ramsay cut off several of his fingers and toes, flayed off sections of his skin, and even had Myranda and Violet arouse Theon in order to castrate him. Ramsay even mockingly renamed him "Reek", physically and psychologically coercing Theon into denying his identity as "Theon Greyjoy" and accepting "Reek" as his new name and identity. Ramsay also psychologically tortured him with fake escape attempts or promises of rescue, before recapturing him. As a result, Reek thinks any possibility of escape or fighting back against Ramsay is simply another ruse. He lives in great fear of Ramsay, desperate to avoid angering him and is in such a state of traumatic shock that he is very withdrawn and submissive.
However, despite his previous actions, Reek appears to have retained a strong love and loyalty to the remaining Starks, demonstrated on several occasions: he is visibly shocked when Ramsay gloats about Robb's death, briefly holding a razor to Ramsay's neck and appearing on the verge of slitting his throat (though he doesn't, because Roose and Locke are present); he appears hesitant about telling them that Bran and Rickon may be sheltering at Castle Black with Jon Snow, knowing that it may lead to their deaths, but does so anyway to avoid angering Ramsay; he silently cries and briefly looks angry when Ramsay rapes Sansa, and does his best (or what he thinks is the best) to keep Sansa from angering Ramsay and suffering more at his hands, and even goes as far as to confess to Sansa that he deserved what he suffered under Ramsay and that he deserved to be Reek for what he did to the Stark family. However, when pushed too far, Theon ultimately abandons his Reek persona and chooses his loyalty to the Starks over Ramsay, by killing Myranda and helping Sansa escape from Winterfell, though still believing himself unworthy of anyone's forgiveness for betraying the Starks, who were the only ones who ever treated him like family.
Despite this admission, Theon still expresses shock after learning of his father's death when he returns to the Iron Islands. Though his sister Yara is still angry with him for refusing to be rescued, they reconcile when Theon offers to support Yara's claim to the Salt Throne. While initially despondent, Theon regains some of his confidence during the Kingsmoot to select the next ruler of the Iron Islands. Giving a brief rousing speech, he manages to convince many of the gathered Ironborn to join him in supporting his sister's claim to the Salt Throne, his speaking skills demonstrating that the original Theon Greyjoy is starting to resurface, though he and Yara are outmaneuvered by Euron, who wins many over by offering to seal an alliance with Daenerys Targaryen.
After escaping Euron with his sister Yara, Theon slides back into his despondent state and is troubled by his role in the death of the orphan boys; believing that he should hang for his crimes. Yara counsels him to rediscover himself so that they can secure an alliance with Daenerys and retake the Iron Islands from their uncle Euron. While negotiating with Daenerys, Theon does not display reluctance for the ironborn to cease raping, pillaging and reaving, and nods at Yara to tell her to agree with Daenerys, demonstrating that despite his recovery, he is still greatly traumatized by his torture by Ramsay, and apparently wishes to lead a more peaceful life in order to prevent it from happening again.
By the time of the alliance between Jon Snow and Daenerys Targaryen, Theon has shown himself to have changed with one particular act: he fought Harrag over the next move of the surviving ironborn. This act shows: Theon, who once demanded the respect of the ironborn he had not earned when he first returned to Pyke, approaches the ironborn as an equal and attempts to rally them to rescue Yara; he was willing to admit publicly that he was a coward to flee from Euron, something he never would have done previously; furthermore, Theon will fight to the death over what he believes, instead of fleeing or submitting as he has in the past. Even though Harrag was significantly stronger than him, he continued to fight, and when Harrag loses his advantage Theon seizes his chance and overpowers him, finally earning the respect of his sister's warriors. This shows that the Theon who betrayed House Stark, as well as the Reek who was a prisoner and lapdog of Ramsay Bolton, is dead and gone, and that the new Theon Greyjoy stands in his place, a brave and strong man willing to fight for what he believes in.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Theon was a young boy when his father's rebellion was crushed and his two brothers were killed. He has one surviving sibling, his sister Asha (called Yara in the TV series).
Theon has been raised at Winterfell since the age of ten; of all the Starks, he has become close friends with Robb Stark. He considers Robb as a younger brother, more a brother to him than his brothers Rodrik and Maron; that does not stop him from betraying Robb, though.
In the beginning of the first novel, Theon is nineteen years old, five years older than Robb and Jon.
Theon is cordial but distant with the rest of the family, and has a bitter rivalry with Ned Stark's illegitimate son Jon Snow; both Theon and Jon are close with Robb, but Theon resents Jon because he is accepted and treated as a son by Ned despite being a bastard, while Jon dislikes Theon for his arrogance, highborn status and Robb's regard for him. In the show, Theon appears to be friends with both Robb and Jon.
Theon is known for his arrogance, as he is the heir to House Greyjoy, one of the Great Houses of Westeros, despite not having seen home in a long time. He is said to smirk a lot as if everything in the world amuses him.
During the first novel A Game of Thrones, Theon announces that "Lord Eddard is a second father to me," but that statement is far from the truth. His true feelings toward Eddard Stark are revealed in his first POV chapter in the second novel, A Clash of Kings: he muses that Eddard had tried to play the father from time to time, but to Theon, Eddard had always remained the man who'd brought blood and fire to Pyke and taken him from his home. As a boy, Theon had lived in fear of Eddard's stern face and great dark sword. In A Dance with Dragons, Theon recalls that as a boy, he once hoped that he would be betrothed to Sansa so Ned could claim him as a legal son, but that was just a child's fancy.
At one point, Theon notices a statue of a past Stark king from centuries ago in the crypts of Winterfell named Theon Stark, and remarks that he was his namesake - though it isn't clear if this was specifically true or if Theon was just speaking generally ("Theon" is not an uncommon name in history).
Theon does not have any happy childhood memories of his homeland. On the contrary, he remembers the Iron Islands as stern and stony places, scant of comfort and bleak of prospect; death is never far, and life is mean and meager; men spend their nights drinking ale and arguing over whose lot is worse, the fisherfolk who fight the sea or the farmers who try and scratch a crop from the poor thin soil. Moreover, his late brothers Rodrik and Maron used to bully him. Generally, his living conditions among the Starks were better conditions. Eddard spanked Theon only once after he bumped into Old Nan and knocked her to the floor, and that was almost tender in comparison to the beatings he used to receive from his brothers.
Soon after Theon is out of the Starks' control, he shows his true colors (in sharp contrast with his "sugarcoated" portrayal in the TV show): a ruthless sociopath villain, rapist and mass murderer, who has no qualms about harming innocent people simply because they are weak and defenseless, including small children; in short, the kind of villain the Mountain is.
When Theon arrives at Lordsport, full of himself, he expects a proper welcome as the heir to Pyke and the Iron Islands. Soon, however, he is deflated and disillusioned: no honor guard is waiting to escort him to Pyke, and nearly everyone around treats him coldly or mockingly, or even ignores his presence. His statement about inheritance rights is scornfully dismissed as "the laws of the green lands" (which do not bind the ironborn) by his uncle Aeron, father and sister. Theon realizes that he is considered not only as a foreigner among the ironborn, but worse - as a soft boy from the green lands. Dagmer is the only one who treats him fondly; he explains to Theon that his father does not know him well, since without his three sons - Asha was his only solace, and he got used to rely on her. He encourages Theon by claiming that there will be other wars, and he shall do great deeds.
Theon's initial raid at Stony Shore is the start of the overall ironborn invasion. The outcome is luridly described: bodies have been looted and mutilated. Of the fishing village, nothing remained but cold ashes that stank when it rained. The men had been put to the sword, all but a handful that Theon had allowed to flee to bring the word to Torrhen's Square. Their wives and daughters had been claimed for salt wives, those who were young enough and fair. The crones and the ugly ones were raped and killed. If they had useful skills and did not seem likely to cause trouble, they were taken to be thralls. After this "victory", Theon proceeds to capture Winterfell.
The conquering of Winterfell occurs similarly to the show, except that three of the servants are murdered (in compliance with Jojen's dream): Alebelly the guard, Mikken and Septon Chayle. Theon murders Chayle himself, not for resisting, but because "you and your gods have no place here now."
At Theon's order, a tavern wench named Kyra is brought to Winterfell. Theon keeps her as a bedwarmer. As Theon's position at Winterfell deteriorates, he becomes so furious and frustrated, that takes it out on Kyra: he climbs on top of her and rapes her very brutally with a fury he'd never known was in him; by the time he finishes, she is sobbing, her neck and breasts covered with bruises and bite marks. Then he shoves her from the bed and tells her to get out.
When Theon took Winterfell, he freed a prisoner named Reek - actually Ramsay Snow in disguise. Theon accepted Ramsay at his service, unaware of his true identity. It was Ramsay, not Dagmer, who advised Theon to kill two unnamed miller's sons as a cover-up for the escape of the Stark boys (the mother of the two unnamed boys was also killed at Theon's command). After Asha left Winterfell, leaving Theon with only seventeen men, Ramsay suggested to bring reinforcements; and Theon reluctantly agreed, though he did not fully trust him.
Ser Rodrik rallied reinforcements and besieged Winterfell. Theon went to parley with him, after ordering his men to put a rope around Beth Cassel's neck. Theon spoke arrogantly to Ser Rodrik, demanding him to swear fealty to Balon as the king and to Theon as the prince of Winterfell. Filled with disdain at Theon's arrogance and the way he treated Beth, Rodrik called Theon a "viper" and "Theon Turncloak" (the latter phrase has become Theon's derogatory nickname). Theon threatened to hang Beth and an additional hostage every dawn and dusk. Returning to Winterfell, he was aware of his hopeless situation: hanging Beth would provoke the storming of Winterfell, and failing to hang her would hollow out future threats. Maester Luwin suggested to Theon that he surrender and take the black. Theon liked this suggestion, albeit not as the selfless act of redemption as Luwin intended. Instead, Theon fancied himself becoming the chief of rangers, or even the glorified Lord Commander. As Lord Commander, Theon believed he could captain ships, and have sex with many wildling women. While he reminded himself that Benjen Stark and Jon Snow both voluntarily joined the Watch, he fails to consider that Jon might kill him for the latter's atrocities.
Ramsay returned with 600 Bolton men - they were welcomed by the other Northerners, but promptly turned on their allies. What followed was not a true battle but a massacre as Rodrik and his army were killed in their own camp. Having broken the siege, Ramsay rode into Winterfell - only then did he reveal his true identity to Theon. Without provocation, Ramsay punched Theon with a mailed fist so hard that it broke his jaw, then ordered his men to kill the remaining ironborn, as well as the Stark servants and commoners of the castle, and to burn everything. As he faded out of consciousness, Theon watched helplessly as the Dreadfort soldiers killed Black Lorren and Maester Luwin. The last thing he saw was his horse Smiler, screaming and rearing, his mane on fire.
Due to his actions, mainly the alleged killing of Bran and Rickon, Theon earned the hatred of the people in the North, and put himself to shame and disgrace in the eyes of the ironborn. Ever since he is referred to as Theon Turncloak.
In the novels, Theon's actions at Winterfell have a significantly greater effect on Robb's eventual downfall than in the show: the alleged murder of Bran and Rickon causes Robb to have sex with Jeyne Westerling out of grief; afterwards, Robb feels honor-bound to marry her, and thus he breaks the alliance with the Freys, setting into motion the chain of events that would ultimately lead to the Red Wedding. Moreover, the grief over Bran and Rickon causes Catelyn to release Robb's most important captive, and that rash act results in the loss of the Karstark troops, which makes Robb's position even worse. Thus Theon unwittingly serves as a catalyst of the Red Wedding, although he has no idea of it and it has never been his intention (very similarly to the way Ramsay unwittingly serves as a catalyst of the mutiny at Castle Black in the novels, by sending the Bastard Letter).
Theon does not appear at all in the third and fourth novels, and he is only mentioned briefly. In A Storm of Swords, Roose Bolton tells Robb and Catelyn that Theon is held prisoner at the Dreadfort, and is being tortured by Ramsay. Roose shows them a piece of skin, claiming it is from the little finger of Theon's left hand, which Ramsay enclosed to the letter Roose received from him. Robb says sharply that he wants Theon's head, not his skin. Roose suggests to keep Theon alive until the North is liberated from the ironborn in order to demand concessions from them, and Robb reluctantly agrees. Since Roose turns to be a traitor and most of his report is revealed to be false, it is unclear to the readers if he lied about Theon too.
In A Feast for Crows, Theon is mentioned several times. Most of the ironborn, including his sister Asha presume he is dead, but are uncertain since his body was never found. Ramsay never sends a taunting letter to Balon in the books, so no one knows if he is even alive, or if he is, where he is being held. Ramsay does send a warning message to Asha, to which he encloses a piece of Theon's skin (not any body part) without specifying Theon's status, but it happens much later. Neither Asha nor anyone else ever intend to try to rescue him. Asha herself actually did return to Winterfell with a few soldiers after the Bolton army withdrew, in the hope that Theon may have survived by hiding, but all they found were badly mutilated bodies, which convinced Asha that Theon was probably dead. Even if she knew that he was alive, and specifically at the Dreadfort, the Boltons' castle is so strong (and located on the other side of the entire continent) that it was actually logistically impossible to mount an assault on it with a few longships.
In A Dance with Dragons, it is finally revealed Theon is alive and has been imprisoned in the Dreadfort since the Sack of Winterfell. Theon's torture by Ramsay is only revealed in flashbacks throughout the fifth novel, but the TV series chose to present these events in the chronological order that they happened. Had they done it in the order that the books did, Theon would have disappeared after the Season 2 finale, and only reappeared again in the Season 5 premiere. The books don't directly state that Ramsay castrated Theon, though it was vaguely implied that he had.
Ramsay's torture of Theon serves no real logical purpose, and he is only doing it out of pure sadism. He basically just picked Theon at random - indeed, part of Ramsay's sadistic glee in torturing people is outright gloating that it isn't happening for any reason whatsoever. The only possible reason to keep Theon alive instead of simply killing him, but not inform the ironborn that he was held captive, might have been to throw the ironborn into internal conflict over who exactly Balon's heir was (as both Asha and Theon's uncles felt they were actually Balon's heirs, due to the unusual succession laws in the Iron Islands). Even if Ramsay emasculated Theon in the books, this doesn't necessarily mean that he cannot "further the Greyjoy line." Unlike the honorable Robb Stark or Jon Snow, Theon greatly enjoyed having sex with prostitutes (as also seen in the TV continuity when he has sex with Ros); Theon has at times mockingly remarked that he may have bastard children that he doesn't know about. He also had sex with the Captain's daughter in the books (who outright wanted him to take her as his salt wife), and specifically joked to her that if she became pregnant, it would be an honor to have a future king's bastard. So far in the books, however, there has been no mention of Theon fathering any known bastards.
Theon's story is largely the same as portrayed in the fifth season. One difference is that rather than marrying Sansa Stark, Ramsay marries Sansa's friend Jeyne Poole, who is being passed off as Arya. Theon knows immediately that it is not really Arya, and suspects that the Boltons have kept him alive because they need him to confirm to the Northern lords that it is her (since Theon is one of the few people still living who could positively identify Arya). Ergo, Theon ends up helping Jeyne escape from Winterfell, aided by a disguised Mance Rayder and his six spearwives. During the escape, Jeyne screams and accidentally gives away their position. Mance and the spearwives stay behind to buy them time, and Theon and Jeyne jump off the castle walls. They survive the fall and manage to reach the approaching army of Stannis Baratheon, and Theon is re-united with his sister Asha, who does not even recognize him. For the first time in years, he introduces himself as Theon Greyjoy rather than Reek.
Theon's physical appearance has changed extremely during his imprisonment at the Dreadfort, to the point that even his sister cannot recognize him: he looks like he has aged many years; has lost three stones (42 lbs.) in weight; his hair turned white and brittle; his skin turned pasty; many of his teeth have been broken or loosened, because Ramsay did not like his smiles; he horribly stinks; Ramsay has cut three of his fingers and four of his toes. As a result, Theon cannot chew solid food, cannot use a bow, and hobbles grotesquely. When Asha sees him, she thinks he is some toothless old man, thinner than a scarecrow, his face resembling a skull.
Theon lives in constant fear of his cruel master. He knows that no matter how he acts - defiantly or obediently - Ramsay will torture him, simply because he can. He keeps reminding himself that his name is Reek, and suppresses any memories of his former life. After his unsuccessful attempt to escape with Kyra, whenever there seems to be a chance of getting away - Theon quickly dismisses it, certain that it is one of Ramsay's cruel games.
Theon loses track of time during his imprisonment. It seems to him that years, maybe decades, passed since he was brought to Dreadfort. Only when Ramsay squires, "Big" Walder and "Little" Walder Frey, come to take him to Ramsay - he realizes that only several months passed.
Theon is totally unaware of the events outside Dreadfort, among them his father's death and the kingsmoot. Even if he knew, it probably wouldn't matter to him, because he had much more urgent things to worry about - like his body parts.
Theon's life means nothing to him. He wouldn't commit suicide but welcomes any chance for a swift end to his miserable existence (like the time he approaches Moat Cailin, totally exposed to arrows). When he realizes Stannis intends to kill him, he finds the thought queerly comforting; he urges Stannis to do it quickly before Ramsay arrives.
In one aspect Theon has not changed at all - morally. He muses that he should have died with Robb, but it is his only regret. Other than that, he does not feel even the slightest remorse or regret about of the atrocities he committed (like the extremely brutal rape of Kyra), and does not feel any sorrow about any of his victims. He does not take responsibility for any of his vile deeds and never blames himself for his predicament, only others - his sister, father, Ramsay. He even blames the servants of Winterfell for not assisting him to hunt down the Stark boys, thinking how much he was "kind" to them. Generally, he sees himself as a poor innocent victim who never harmed anyone and does not deserve the suffering he has been through.[N 2]
The only of Theon's victims that he acknowledges as such are the miller's sons, whom he dismisses nonchalantly as "It was not Bran we killed. It was not Rickon. They were only miller's sons." About their mother, who begged in vain for mercy before being murdered too at Theon's command, he remembers very clearly the occasional sex they had and how her breasts looked like - but not her death. He similarly disregards his other victims (the people of Stony Shore, Benfred Tallhart, Alebelly, Chayle, Mikken, Farlen, etc.).
Theon has not even abandoned his despicable habit of kicking dead bodies: in the beginning of the series he kicked the severed head of the deserter, laughing as if it was a ball; long afterward, when he came to Moat Cailin, he kicked twice a dead ironborn.
Theon's lack of remorse is shown also in his POV chapter of the sixth book: first, he convinces himself that Ramsay forced him to kill the miller's sons. This is a lie, because at that point of the story - Ramsay was not in a position to force Theon to do anything; he suggested that but Theon was the one in charge, and he made the decision, thus the blood of the boys (and their mother) is on his hands, not Ramsay's, but Theon wouldn't admit that. Second, he assures Stannis that the North remembers the Red Wedding, the sack of Winterfell, Deepwood Motte and Torrhen's Square - but leaves out the atrocities that he performed (the harrying of the Stony Shore and the taking of Winterfell).
Even when Theon is out of Ramsay's grasp, he cannot get rid of the deep fear of him; whenever someone (Stannis, Asha) refers to Ramsay as "the bastard", Theon automatically exclaims, "Never call him that!."
In the novels, "Reek" was actually the name of Ramsay Snow's servant. His real name might have been "Heke", but he was called "Reek" because he stank like rotting fish, apparently from some kind of medical condition, as the smell lingered no matter how much he bathed. When Ser Rodrik attempted to arrest Ramsay, he quickly switched clothes with his servant, so Rodrik ended up killing the servant while Ramsay passed himself off as Reek, and went back with them to Winterfell just before Theon's ironborn captured it. Ramsay later mockingly tortured Theon physically and psychologically until he was brainwashed into thinking he actually was Reek, and denying he was ever Theon. Or rather, Theon constantly reminds himself in his inner POV that "I am Reek", because when he showed any hint during his torture that he still considered himself "Theon" Ramsay would flay him again (Ramsay didn't just want him to say the words "I am Reek", but wanted him to even stop consciously thinking of himself as "Theon Greyjoy"). This subplot was cut from the TV series for screentime, and instead has Ramsay simply come up with the name "Reek" on a whim to demean and dehumanize Theon, noting that he stinks from being in the dungeons for so long, but Theon comes to insist that his name is Reek partly out of regret for the atrocities he committed against the Starks as Theon Greyjoy.
In A Dance with Dragons, Theon's reunion with his sister Asha occurs under different circumstances. Instead of returning to the Iron Islands, Theon and "Arya Stark" (actually Jeyne Poole) are brought to King Stannis Baratheon's camp. Asha has been taken captive by King Stannis following the liberation of Deepwood Motte. By that stage, the Kingsmoot has already occurred and Euron is already leading the ironborn invasion of the Reach. In a reversal of their encounter in the books, Asha does not recognize her brother, who has been battered and disfigured by Ramsay Bolton. When Asha realizes that scrawny, stinky, toothless old man is in fact Theon, she reacts with shock and disgust.
In a sample chapter from The Winds of Winter, Theon is put in chains by Stannis, who questions him about the Boltons' strength and numbers. Theon provides as much information as he can, and warns Stannis not to underestimate Ramsay. Stannis plans to execute Theon eventually, in order to secure the loyalty of the remaining Northern lords, who are furious at Theon for apparently murdering Bran and Rickon. Theon reacts indifferently, not even trying to tell Stannis the truth that he actually didn't kill Bran and Rickon, actually hoping that Stannis will kill him and end his suffering, and partially out of guilt for betraying Robb (to the point that in A Dance with Dragons, Theon's inner thoughts reveal that he believes he should have been at the Red Wedding, where he would have died valiantly at Robb's side and not ended up living as Ramsay's broken slave). Asha pleads with Stannis to spare her brother's life. When that fails, she petitions Stannis to spare him an agonizing death through fire by beheading him instead.
In the television series, Theon escapes the North, returns home and travels to Meereen, implying that in the books, he will not be killed by Stannis and may very well escape captivity along with Asha, possibly around the same time as Stannis's possible coming death in the books, though it remains to be seen, as Theon's role in the series has been merged with Victarion's from the novels.
Even if Theon somehow escapes, the chances that he'll die similarly to his analogous show character are extremely low: he is a total wreck, due to Ramsay's torturing, so he cannot fight or shoot arrows; more importantly, he does not feel any remorse about the atrocities he committed, and does not feel that he must make up for them.
Ser Brienne of Tarth is a knight of House Tarth and the only daughter of Lord Selwyn Tarth.
Prior to the Battle of Winterfell, Brienne was knighted by Ser Jaime Lannister, making her the first woman of the Seven Kingdoms to become a knight.
Following the ascension of Bran I the Broken as King of the Andals and the First Men, following the death of Daenerys Targaryen, Brienne is appointed the new Lord Commander of the Kingsguard.
Brienne is the sole surviving child and heir of Lord Selwyn Tarth of Evenfall Hall, on the island of Tarth, located in the Narrow Sea off the coast of the Stormlands. Though few men in Westeros would find her attractive, she is unusually tall and muscular for a woman by Westerosi standards and developed a taste for martial activity as a child. Brienne has grown up to become skilled at arms and dreams of becoming a knight an unusual aspiration for a Westerosi woman.
Brienne's mother died when she was so young that she doesn't remember her. She had some siblings but they all died in childhood. As the sole heir of House Tarth, she posed a fairly promising marriage prospect for men from other noble houses, but due to her physicality and personality she has never seriously pursued a marriage alliance with another house, and was a virgin until her liaison with Jaime Lannister. As a child, she was frequently mocked by her peers when dressed in female clothes. She recalls a certain ball where the other ladies made a laughingstock of her until she was rescued by a young Renly Baratheon.
She is also called the "Maid of Tarth,"[citation needed] or, disparagingly, "Brienne the Beauty," due to her appearance.
Brienne asks to join Renly's Kingsguard.
Brienne escorts Lady Catelyn Stark.
Brienne joins the forces of King Renly Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings. She proves herself by winning a tournament amongst his men, including a victory over Renly's favorite – and Lord Commander of the Kingsguard – Ser Loras Tyrell. She asks to be named to his Kingsguard as a reward. Renly grants her request, despite her gender and consequent lack of knighthood. Catelyn arrives in the camp to negotiate an alliance between Renly and her son, King Robb Stark. Brienne takes offense when Lady Catelyn doesn't refer to Renly as "Your Grace", and later, escorts her and Renly through the camp as they talk. She tells Catelyn to call her just "Brienne", as despite her birth, she doesn't consider herself a "Lady."
Littlefinger also visits Renly's camp, as an envoy from King Joffrey Baratheon. Renly tells Petyr that he does not trust him and cites Brienne as having true loyalty. This mistrust seems well founded, as Petyr offers to open the gates of King's Landing to Renly. While in camp, he also proposes that Catelyn exchange Robb's captive Jaime for her daughters. Brienne also guards Renly during an unsuccessful meeting with his brother, King Stannis Baratheon. Stannis threatens Renly for refusing to swear fealty to him.
Brienne kills Renly kingsguard after they accuse her of murdering him.
Later that evening, Renly talks with Catelyn in his tent, agreeing to recognize Robb as King in the North, as long as Robb gives him fealty as an overlord and recognizes his claim to the Iron Throne. Brienne is removing his armor when the flap of the tent flutters as if the wind has raised it, and Melisandre's shadow-creature materializes to stab Renly in the back, running him through. Brienne is devastated at witnessing the death, but recognizes that the Shadow had the likeness of Stannis. She cries out and catches him as he falls, getting his blood all over herself. When two other members of Renly's Kingsguard who were guarding the tent rush in, they blame Brienne for the death and attack her. She is forced to kill Robar Royce and Emmon Cuy, and Catelyn convinces her to flee the camp, as she cannot avenge Renly if she is dead herself.
Brienne swears fealty to Lady Catelyn.
Brienne swears an oath of fealty to Catelyn, becoming her sworn sword. They travel back to Robb's camp in the Westerlands. Catelyn is devastated by news that her home Winterfell has been captured by the turncloak Theon and her sons made his captives. Robb, still in the midst of fighting for the Riverlands, plans to send word to a vassal in the North, the bastard of one of his commanders Roose Bolton, to free them and leaves to negotiate the surrender of the Crag.
Catelyn and Brienne talk to Jaime Lannister.
Jaime escapes captivity, killing Torrhen Karstark in the attempt. He is soon recaptured, but Torrhen's father Lord Rickard Karstark demands his head in vengeance. Brienne guards Catelyn as she convinces Rickard to await Robb's return. As the hours until daylight stretch before them, the Karstarks are getting more violent and agitated, calling for Jaime's death. As it would be death to try to defend him, Brienne tells Catelyn that at this rate Jaime will not live long enough for Robb to return.
Brienne escorts Jaime to King's Landing.
Catelyn decides to free Jaime in an attempt to exchange him for her two daughters, who she believes are both being held hostage in King's Landing by the Lannisters. She orders Brienne to smuggle Jaime from the camp and deliver him to King's Landing in order to secure the safety of her daughters. Brienne travels by horse until finding a rowboat to evade pursuit. She suffers the constant antagonism of her captive as he taunts her about her appearance and her likely dismal history with the opposite sex.
Brienne attempts to foil Stark soldiers when they ask about Jaime.
When they come upon a tree with the hanging corpses of three tavern girls who have been killed by Stark forces for having relations with Lannister men, Jaime confronts her with the atrocity committed by "her side." Brienne reminds him that she is sworn to Lady Catelyn, not the Starks. Despite their need to continue, Brienne determines to give the women a decent burial and is going to cut them down, when three of the Northern soldiers who killed the women return. Jaime tries to get her to remove his chains so he can defend them, but Brienne ignores him. She tells the men that she is escorting a prisoner back to Riverrun for justice. Jaime improvises that he is in chains for stealing a pig. Realizing that Brienne is a woman, the Stark soldiers laugh uncontrollably. Brienne suffers it in silence, and at this even Jaime seems sympathetic towards her over this rude treatment. She deflects the men's amusement by asking if the hanging women were given a quick death, and is told two of them were. When one of the men recognizes Jaime from the Battle of the Whispering Wood, Brienne is forced to fight them. She kills two quickly, but deliberately gives the third a slower death. Her skill impresses Ser Jaime, who points out that the men she killed were Stark soldiers. Brienne reaffirms that she is loyal not to the Starks but to Catelyn herself, then returns to the task of cutting down and burying the tavern girls.
Jaime continues to be escorted by Brienne to King's Landing. On their way there, they are spotted by a traveler. Jaime urges Brienne to kill the traveler, since he believes the man recognized him and will give away their whereabouts, but she refuses. Later, the pair have to cross a river, which means they can either attempt a dangerous fording or take the bridge, which will probably be watched.
Jaime and Brienne fight en route to King's Landing.
Brienne takes the safer route of the bridge. Jaime distracts Brienne and grabs her spare sword. He cut his bonds and they engage in an extended sword fight on the bridge Jaime, one of the most skilled swordsmen in all of Westeros, nearly overcomes Brienne several times. However, Jaime's mobility is reduced because his hands are still manacled, and he is malnourished after having spent the past full year chained up in a cell.
Brienne and Jaime slowly back away from Locke.
Jaime begins to tire, and Brienne wears him down further by making simple body-blows with kicks and punches. After a protracted fight, Jaime finally slumps to the ground in exhaustion, after being thrown off balance. Just then, riders from House Bolton (guided by the traveler who spied them earlier) arrive led by a man named Locke, who gives the traveler silver for his services. Jaime tries to negotiate, but Locke replies that he will be executed by Robb if he lets the Kingslayer go free, so both he and Brienne are taken prisoner.
Jaime and Brienne are made a captive of the Bolton entourage.
As they ride along, the Bolton men sing a rousing chorus of "The Bear and the Maiden Fair." Tied up back to back on one of the horses, Jaime warns Brienne that when they make camp for the night, they will rape her, more than once, and that his honest advice is to give no resistance, and just think of Renly. They were only sent to capture Jaime, therefore Brienne means nothing to them, so at the slightest provocation they will kill her without hesitation. Brienne says she will fight even if they kill her, and Jaime agrees that if he were a woman, he would fight to the death before being raped, too.
Brienne is nearly raped.
Later that night, Locke's men make camp, and do indeed drag Brienne kicking and screaming into the bushes to gang-rape her. Jaime is disgusted by this pointless brutality, so he tells Locke that Brienne is actually a noblewoman and the sole heir of Lord Selwyn Tarth, who rules the "Sapphire Isle" which, Jaime says, mines all the sapphires in Westeros, and her father will pay them her weight in sapphires as a ransom, provided she is unharmed. Locke agrees and calls his men back before they are able to rape Brienne, and they tie her up to a tree again.
Emboldened by his success, Jaime attempts to barter for his release by reminding Locke of the wealth and power of his own father. This has an adverse effect, however, and Locke, angered by Jaime's arrogance and complacency, mutilates him by cutting off his sword hand. Later, while sitting with Brienne near the fire, Jaime has lost the will to live and will not eat because of his lost hand. At first, Brienne chastises him that he cannot take it when life gets tough, comparing him to the stereotypical interpretation of a woman that she clearly is not. However, when she asks him why he helped her escape being raped, he does not reply, but begins to eat, puzzling Brienne.
Brienne holds Jaime as he collapses.
After both are delivered to Harrenhal, where Jaime's infected stump is treated by Qyburn, Jaime shocks Brienne by joining her in the communal bath. Jaime mocks Brienne, saying she was unable to protect Renly. Brienne stands up defiantly, and Jaime apologizes to her. He begins to confess what really happened when he killed the Mad King, to which she asks why he never told his side of the story before now. The stress of relating the tale, combined with his already weakened state, causes him to collapse into her arms. She calls aid for the "Kingslayer", at which he whimpers that his name is Jaime.
Roose tells Brienne of Jaime's travel arrangements.
Lord Bolton allows Jaime to leave for King's Landing, but decides to keep Brienne in Harrenhal for abetting treason, in spite of Jaime's protests. Soon afterwards, Lord Bolton departs to attend Edmure Tully's wedding at the Twins, leaving Brienne in Locke's custody. Locke attempts to ransom Brienne to her father, who offers 300 gold dragons for her return. He rejects the offer as derisory, having believed Jaime's earlier lie that Brienne's father owned all the sapphire mines in Westeros.
Locke forces Brienne into bear-bating.
Instead, he throws her into a gladiatorial pit with a bear, giving her only a wooden sword to defend herself. After hearing that Brienne has been left at Locke's mercy at Harrenhal, Jaime compels his escorts to return to save her. Jaime jumps into the pit, and with the help of Steelshanks who is bound by his duty to ensure Jaime arrives in King's Landing safely, the two of them manage to escape the pit. Locke is outraged, but Jaime insists that Brienne accompany him, adding that Lord Bolton will not be pleased if he discovers that Locke placed his own amusement over Jaime's safe return to King's Landing. Locke relents, and Brienne and Jaime depart together.
Jaime and Brienne in King's Landing.
Jaime and Brienne arrive at the gates of the Red Keep. At first, Jaime is apprehensive at the thought of being recognized in his current condition, but after a peasant bumps into Jaime and calls him a "country boy", Brienne smiles at Jaime, reassuring him. Her oath to Catelyn becomes more important than ever, following her death at the Red Wedding, and her discovery that Arya is not present at court, contrary to what Littlefinger previously told Catelyn.
Brienne with Margaery.
Several weeks after their return, Brienne visits Margaery Tyrell. After enduring Olenna Tyrell's melodrama regarding her appearance and her gratitude for putting Loras in his place, Brienne and Margaery slip off to discuss Renly's assassination. Brienne explains what she saw and how the shadow had Stannis's face, and assures Margaery that she will find a way to avenge their king. Margaery reminds Brienne that Joffrey is their king now. Brienne apologizes for any offense given, but Margaery assures her that none was taken.
Jaime and Brienne discuss Sansa.
Later that day, Brienne meets with Jaime near the Red Keep's Godswood to discuss the Stark girls. Jaime seems uninterested in fulfilling his promise to the now-deceased Catelyn, telling Brienne that Arya has not been seen for months and is probably dead, and Sansa is now his sister-in-law. Brienne demands that Jaime look her in the eye and say that Sansa is safe in King's Landing; Jaime is unable to do so.
Brienne at Joffrey and Margaery's wedding.
Brienne is present at the wedding feast of King Joffrey and Queen Margaery. She greets the king and queen with a bow, which earns her a brash reaction from Cersei. Joffrey mistakes her for the one who assassinated Renly Baratheon, which Margaery quickly corrects. Right after, Cersei thanks her for bringing her brother back to King's Landing safely. Brienne adds that Jaime saved her on multiple occasions, which irritates Cersei. Cersei finds it interesting that Brienne served Renly, followed by Catelyn, and now Jaime. Brienne states that she does not serve her brother, but Cersei wonders aloud if Brienne is in love with him; Brienne does not answer the question before leaving.
Brienne talks to Jaime before she leaves to track Sansa and Arya.
Following Sansa's escape from King's Landing, Jaime tasks Brienne with finding her and taking her somewhere safe, far away from his sister. As parting gifts, he gives her a new suit of armor and lets her keep his Valyrian steel sword, as it was reforged from Eddard Stark's greatsword Ice, and it would be appropriate to protect Ned Stark's daughter with a sword forged from his. He also sends her Tyrion's former squire Podrick Payne to accompany Brienne on her travels. During an emotional farewell on the Kingsroad, Jaime asks her to name the sword, and after a moment's thought, she chooses to call it "Oathkeeper."
Brienne rides with Podrick.
While on the road, Podrick proves to be more a hindrance than a help to Brienne. He has problems with his horse and accidentally sets fire to a rabbit they were cooking. Brienne tries to get rid of Podrick by releasing him from the vow he swore as her squire, but to no avail. They are bound for Castle Black, where Brienne believes Sansa may have taken refuge with her half-brother, Jon Snow. Brienne questions Podrick about his duties as squire to Tyrion. He tells her his job was mostly pouring wine, alongside other menial tasks. Brienne then asks if Podrick did anything related to combat. Podrick reveals how he killed Ser Mandon Moore of the Kingsguard by shoving a spear through his head when he tried to kill Tyrion. Brienne then allows Podrick to help her remove her armor.
Brienne and Podrick meet Hot Pie at the inn.
Later on, Brienne and Pod stop at an inn where they are served kidney pie made by Hot Pie, who tells them at length the process in finding the right ingredients. Brienne tells him that she is in Catelyn's service and is sworn to find and protect Sansa. Hot Pie backs off, declaring the Starks traitors.
Podrick tells Brienne of Arya's possible whereabouts.
As Brienne and Podrick prepare to leave the inn, Podrick reminds Brienne that telling people of their quest could be dangerous, but Brienne's honesty is swiftly rewarded when Hot Pie approaches and gives them some bread baked in the shape of a wolf. He adds that while he knows nothing of Sansa, he has seen her sister Arya, who was in the company of a man who matches the description of the Hound. Podrick, having memorized the complex family trees of the Great Houses, suggests that they head to the Eyrie, home of Lysa Arryn, Arya's aunt and the Hound's last chance for a ransom, which seems to impress Brienne, who questions why Arya would go the Eyrie.
En route to the Bloody Gate, Brienne and Podrick stumble upon Arya and the Hound, who have just returned from the Eyrie after learning of Lysa's death. Determined to honor her vow to Catelyn Stark, Brienne urges Arya to come with her and promises to take her to safety, but both spot Oathkeeper and assume that it a reward for turning her cloak to Lannisters.
Brienne and the Hound engage over Arya's safety.
Arya is wary and refuses, suspecting she is working for the Lannisters after the Hound points out the golden Lannister lion on Oathkeeper's hilt. He sneers that there is no safety for Arya, as all her adult relatives are either dead or captured, and Winterfell is a ruin. When the Hound cites that, if she is unaware that nowhere is safe then she is unfit to protect Arya, she retorts that he is embracing such a fact and protecting her anyway. Both warrior draw swords at this.
Brienne fights the Hound.
The fight descends rapidly into violent fisticuffs, in which Brienne shatters Sandor's teeth, which he returns with a heavy punched to gut. Brienne ultimately wins by pushing him down a cliff, collapsing exhausted on the ground following the fight. When she returns to Podrick (who was supposed to be keeping an eye on Arya, but was watching the fight instead), Arya is gone. Exhausted and infuriated by her fight with the Hound, Brienne screams Arya's name repeatedly, while Arya sneaks away from them.
After failing to locate Arya, Podrick asks Brienne if they intend to journey to Castle Black to see if Sansa has been taken in by Jon. Brienne dismisses the idea of the two of them continuing to travel together, as Podrick is now hundreds of miles from the dangers of King's Landing. Podrick wishes to remain with Brienne as her squire in order to locate Sansa, but she sharply reminds him that she is not a knight, nor his mother. Brienne laments that the only thing she ever wanted was to fight for a lord she believed in, but now all the good lords are dead and the rest are monsters.
Brienne swears an oath to Sansa.
While dining at an inn, Podrick identifies Sansa sitting with Littlefinger. Although they are surrounded by guards, Brienne approaches them and reveals to Sansa that she swore an oath to her mother to keep her safe, but doesn't mention her run-in with Arya in Baelish's presence. Baelish counters by telling Sansa that Brienne, a complete stranger, swore oaths to protect both Catelyn and Renly and failed at both. Sansa rejects Brienne's offer of protection while Petyr insists that Brienne stay with their group, as the roads are not safe.
Sensing the trap, Brienne escapes with Podrick on stolen horses and are pursued by the guards. Brienne is forced to let Sansa and Petyr escape, since she was separated from Podrick during the chase. Brienne rescues him by slaying two of the pursuing guards, and the duo prepare to pursue Sansa and Petyr. Podrick argues that Sansa has dismissed her therefore released from her oath, but Brienne insists that she is not safe with Littlefinger.
Brienne and Podrick witness Sansa passing through Moat Cailin.
Brienne and Podrick witness Petyr and Sansa approach Moat Cailin. Realizing that following them through the castle would be futile, she decides to bypass Moat Cailin by going around. Although Podrick is worried about losing sight of them, Brienne tells him that they don't need to follow them so closely because she knows where they are going.
Brienne and Podrick discuss Renly.
Making camp, Brienne learns how Podrick became Tyrion's squire. Podrick praises Brienne's martial prowess and is quite proud to be her squire, despite her behavior towards him. Brienne apologizes for her rude behavior towards Podrick and offers to teach him how to wield a sword and ride a horse properly. Podrick then questions Brienne about her past with Renly. She reveals that as a young girl, her father held a ball and invited dozens of young lords in order to find a good match for her. Brienne was captivated by all the attention she was getting, but her happiness turned to embarrassment when Brienne realized they were all just toying with her. Before she could run away, Renly took Brienne into his arms and told her that those "nasty little shits aren't worth crying over" and danced with her.
Brienne also acknowledges that Renly was only interested in men, but it didn't stop her from loving him. She says that there is nothing more hateful than failing to protect the ones you love, and intends to avenge Renly by killing Stannis, whom she believes played a role in Renly's murder due to Melisandre's shadow resembling Stannis.
Brienne and Podrick stay at an inn near Winterfell.
Brienne and Podrick finally reach Winterfell and take a room at a nearby inn in the winter town. Podrick muses that Sansa is home now, but Brienne counters that a Winterfell full of Boltons is hardly safe at all. When a servant comes to bring food, Brienne engages him. Although reluctant to trust southerners, the man listens to Brienne when she says she is sworn to Lady Catelyn and is impressed when she says that her death does not release her from her vows. Brienne then reveals that Sansa is in Winterfell and she needs the old man to get a message to her.
Brienne and Podrick continue to wait for Sansa's signal, watching the window of the tower at every opportunity. Still awaiting Sansa's signal, Brienne is alerted by Podrick of the arrival of Stannis and what is left of his army. She reluctantly abandons her mission of saving Sansa, with the candle in the tower being lit by Sansa just a few seconds after Brienne leaves. After the battle, which results in the complete annihilation of the remainder of Stannis's army.
Brienne does her duty to Renly.
Brienne finds Stannis wounded in the Wolfswood. Stannis takes her for a woman fighting for the Boltons, but Brienne tells him her name and real allegiance. Stannis confesses his involvement in the assassination of his younger brother Renly, whom Brienne had sworn to protect as member of his kingsguard. Brienne draws her sword and sentences Stannis to death. When asked for any last words, Stannis urges Brienne to do her duty, after which she beheads him with a single stroke.
Brienne pledges herself to Sansa once again.
With Stannis dead, Brienne and Podrick continue their search for Sansa. Eventually, they manage to find Sansa and Theon being apprehended by a Bolton hunting party. Brienne kills most of the soldiers on horseback, then knocks one off his horse before slitting his throat. Once all the soldiers are dead, Brienne once again offers her services to Sansa, who readily agrees this time.
Brienne tells Sansa of Arya's survival.
Later, while making camp, Brienne informs Sansa that Arya (who she comments on looking far less ladylike than Sansa) is alive, though she was unable to find her after defeating the Hound. After resting, Brienne and Podrick accompany Sansa to meet Jon at Castle Black. However, Theon decides not to travel with them and instead to return to his family in the Iron Islands, the group allowing him to take a horse for travel.
Brienne arrives at the Wall with Sansa.
Brienne, Podrick, and Sansa arrive at Castle Black, where Sansa and Jon are reunited. Brienne notices Tormund gazing at her admirably, which makes her visibly uncomfortable. Later, Brienne confronts Davos and Melisandre, having previously met them in the Stormlands during Renly and Stannis's parley. Having overheard Davos ask Melisandre what exactly happened at Stannis's camp after he left, Brienne openly admits that she found and killed Stannis after he admitted to murdering Renly with blood magic.
Brienne dines at Castle Black.
Though she admits it is in the past, she claims she will never forgive Melisandre for her role in Renly's death. Brienne later shares a meal with Jon, Sansa, Podrick, Tormund and Eddison Tollett, during which Jon receives a letter from Ramsay Bolton demanding Sansa back on threat of harming him and his friends, and displays obvious anger when Ramsay mentions letting his soldiers rape Sansa one by one and that he has Rickon as his hostage. Sansa demands that she and Jon reclaim Winterfell for the sake of their family.
Brienne watches as Sansa interrogates Littlefinger.
Brienne later accompanies Sansa to the ruins of Mole's Town to meet with Petyr Baelish. Though Baelish offers to help Sansa against the Boltons, Sansa accuses him of deliberately giving her to Ramsay to further his own agendas and contemplates having Brienne kill him there and then, though she lets him go after he reveals that her great-uncle, Brynden Tully, has retaken Riverrun from the Freys.
Sansa and Brienne analyze their plans with Jon.
At a war council, Brienne listens to Jon, Davos, and Sansa's strategies for their upcoming war with Ramsay, and is visibly concerned when Sansa claims she learned of Brynden's victory via one of Ramsay's messages. Sansa tasks Brienne with locating Brynden and recruiting him to their cause, though Brienne expresses concern at leaving Sansa, trusting Jon to protect her but remaining wary of Davos and Melisandre, who helped Stannis kill Renly, and Tormund, whose admiration of her has left her uneasy. When Brienne asks Sansa why she did not trust Jon with Baelish's information, Sansa does not answer. Brienne later leaves Castle Black with the others, starting her journey to the Riverlands with Podrick.
Brienne arrives at Riverrun.
Brienne and Podrick travel to Riverrun to deliver Sansa's letter to Brynden Tully, who has regrouped his forces whilst under siege from the Freys. Upon arriving, they discover that the combined forces of House Lannister and House Frey are besieging the castle. Soon, they are surrounded by several Lannister horsemen. Brienne tells them that she has come to see Ser Jaime Lannister and to "tell him I have his sword." Jaime and Brienne meet discreetly in a tent. While Brienne has found Sansa, their situation is complicated by a bounty that Cersei has placed on Sansa's head. Brienne tells Jaime that she has come to secure Brynden's help in seeking reinforcements for her campaign to retake Winterfell from the Boltons.
Brienne solemnly compares sides.
This is not possible because Jaime is laying siege to Riverrun. Brienne convinces Jaime to let her negotiate with the Blackfish so that Brynden and his men can leave the castle at night to travel to Winterfell. Before she leaves, she points out that, if she is unsuccessful, then she will be compelled by honor (to Sansa's family) to fight against Jaime. Jaime voices his hope that it doesn't come to that. She then offers Oathkeeper back to him, stating that it was given to her for a purpose, and that purpose has been fulfilled.
Brienne gives Sansa's letter to Brynden.
Jaime tells her to keep the sword in order to continue to fulfill the oath it was named after. Brienne fails to convince the Blackfish, but in the end, the castle is taken with him as the only casualty. Just before he goes off to meet his death, the Blackfish puts Brienne and Podrick into a rowboat in a secret escape tunnel. As Brienne and Podrick row quietly away in the dawn, Jaime sees her from the castle. She meets his gaze as they both wave a quiet farewell.
Brienne admires Lyanna.
Brienne and Podrick return to Winterfell in the aftermath of the Battle of the Bastards, and witness Jon Snow's declaration of their coming war with the Night King and pardoning of Houses Umber and Karstark. She is notably surprised, along with the other lords, when Jon announces that he expects women to be trained for the fight against the Night King in addition to men, but smiles when Lyanna Mormont expresses her eagerness to this prospect.
Brienne trains Podrick.
Brienne later tutors Podrick in the Winterfell courtyard rather sternly, but is struck by Podrick when Tormund appears and momentarily distracts her. Brienne punches Podrick to the ground without hurting him seriously and rebuffs Tormund's advances. She sees Petyr Baelish talking to Sansa on the ramparts and approaches Sansa, causing Baelish to leave. Still distrusting Baelish, Brienne asks Sansa why he is still at Winterfell. Sansa reveals that Baelish led the relief force that helped Jon Snow defeat Ramsay, though Brienne quips that Baelish is after something else.
Brienne watches as House Stark is reunited.
She is also present during Jon's second meeting, at which he announces his departure to Dragonstone and Sansa's control over the North, delighting Brienne. After Bran returns to Winterfell, and reunites with Sansa, the two are reunited with a recently returned Arya in the godswood. They proceed back to Winterfell's castle courtyard together, Brienne and Podrick see them from afar, all three of Catelyn's surviving children reunited. Pod says Catelyn would be proud of Brienne, but she chides that she did next to nothing. Pod says he disagrees with "my lady", and Brienne starts to correct him that she doesn't consider herself a "lady", but then stops halfway and just thanks him for the compliment.
Brienne spars with Arya.
Some time later, Brienne is going through a vigorous sword practice session with Podrick, knocking him down when he overextends himself. Impressed, Arya interrupts and says she'd like to spar with Brienne - the woman who beat the Hound in combat. Brienne goes easy on her at first, but then Arya completely outmaneuvers Brienne using the water dance training she received from Syrio Forel, augmented by her training with the Faceless Men. Arya achieves many openings that would be a killing blow if she wanted them to be. Surprised that such a young girl is so skilled, Brienne stops holding back, leading to a grueling sparring session. Brienne manages to knock Needle out of Arya's hand but she simply switches to the Valyrian steel dagger she had in her belt. Arya uses her speed and agility to compensate for Brienne's strength and size to overwhelm her - until Brienne actually manages to bring her brute strength to bear on a fast moving target by landing a kick on Arya's chest that sends her falling down. Ultimately, they reach a stalemate, with each of them holding a blade at the others' throat. Arya takes her leave of Brienne, both mutually impressed.
When tensions start to arise between Sansa and Arya after the latter discovers the letter that Sansa wrote to Robb, asking him to swear fealty to Joffrey in exchange for sparing their father (which Littlefinger arranged for her to find), Sansa confides to Littlefinger, who insinuates that since Brienne swore an oath to Catelyn to protect both of her daughters, it could also mean having to protect one from the other.
Brienne is sent to King's Landing.
Apparently plotting to undermine Arya, Sansa sends Brienne to King's Landing to represent her at the parley with Cersei Lannister. Brienne objects to the idea, claiming that Sansa is not safe alone, especially with Littlefinger around, and advocates leaving Podrick behind to protect her, but Sansa refuses and sends Brienne on her way. Meanwhile, beyond the Wall, Tormund Giantsbane and the Hound, while bantering, briefly discuss Brienne when Tormund brings up his crush on her. His description of her leads Sandor to discover, to his shock, that Tormund is in love with Brienne, but he shoots down the idea of Tormund winning Brienne's heart, remembering his own encounter and battle with the Maid of Tarth.
Brienne and Podrick arrive in King's Landing ahead of Jon's party and are greeted by Bronn and several Lannister men. They accompany him as he welcomes Jon's party when they arrive, and Brienne is shocked to see Sandor Clegane alive and siding with the North. As they collectively walk to the Dragonpit for the armistice meeting, Brienne tells the Hound that she thought he was dead. He remarks that she came pretty close to rendering him so. She counters that she was only trying to protect Arya, and the Hound says he was as well. Brienne tells him that Arya is alive and home at Winterfell, much to his surprise. When he asks who's protecting her there if Brienne is here, she quips, "The only one that needs protecting is the one who gets in her way." They share a smile over that.
At the meeting. Brienne stands with Jon's party under their canopy and shares an uneasy glance with Jaime as he escorts Cersei to her canopy. She sits silently during the proceedings, witnessing Queen Daenerys Targaryen's dramatic entrance on Drogon and the revealing of the wight to Cersei and the others. In spite of this, Cersei declares that she will not stand down or help the North fight the coming war with the dead. As the meeting disperses, Brienne accosts Jaime and begs him to talk to Cersei to try to convince her to put aside their petty differences and join them in defeating the wights. Jaime doesn't believe talking to Cersei will do any good. She is seen standing with Jon's party when Cersei returns from speaking with Tyrion, apparently having decided to help the North after all.
Brienne returns to Winterfell alongside Jon and Daenerys's forces and helps organize the defense of the castle.
Jaime expresses his respect for Brienne.
At Jaime's trial in the Great Hall, she speaks on his behalf, convincing Sansa, Daenerys, and Jon to spare him after telling them the story of how he saved her from Locke's men, along with assigning her mission to find and protect the Stark girls. Later, Brienne is overseeing Podrick's progress as he trains someone, when Jaime arrives to thank her for supporting him. Thinking he plans to insult her once again, she is surprised when he asks to serve under her command in the upcoming battle. Though hesitant at first, she accepts.
Brienne is present when Jon and the others discuss their plan of defense, refusing another of Tormund's advances in the process. Later, she joins the Lannister brothers for wine, but orders a half cup for Podrick, since the battle could start at any moment; Tyrion serves Podrick a full cup anyway. After hearing Tormund's story of how he earned his nickname "Giantsbane", he questions her status among the nobility. Brienne confesses that she was never made a knight, due to tradition.
Jaime knights Brienne.
Tormund scoffs at the idea and declares that he would knight Brienne ten times over if he was a king, presumably under the assumption that only a king has the standing to perform the knighting ceremony. Jaime notes that Tormund wouldn't need to be a king to knight Brienne, as knights are also permitted to perform the ceremony. He offers to knight her himself, and she accepts, becoming Ser Brienne. She celebrates with the others, but the festivities are cut short by three horn blasts, signalling the arrival of the White Walkers.
Brienne is almost suffocated by wights.
Brienne, Jaime, Jorah Mormont and Grey Worm lead the Northern and Targaryen forces to fight the dead in the open during the Battle of Winterfell but are quickly overwhelmed, Brienne herself being saved by Jaime during the initial onslaught. As they are forced to retreat into Winterfell, they try to fend off the wights trying to breach the walls of the castle. However, the undead army is obliterated with the death of the Night King at the hands of Arya.
Brienne begs Jaime to stay with her.
After the victory over the dead, the living celebrate, and she rejects the advances of Tormund. Brienne and Jaime exchange smiles and Tyrion, now very drunk, correctly guesses Brienne is a virgin. Her smile fades and says she must relieve herself. Jaime follows her into her quarters, and they end up having sex. Despite his love for Brienne, Jaime decides to head back after the Iron Fleet ambushed the Targaryen forces near Dragonstone, horrified about Cersei's fate if she loses. Brienne pleads with him not to leave, stating he is a good man, but he states he is as hateful as Cersei.
Brienne fills out Jaime's chapter in The Book of Brothers.
Following the assassination of Daenerys Targaryen, Brienne attends the trial of Tyrion. After Tyrion suggests that the lords of Seven Kingdoms choose their new king and suggests Bran's name, Brienne assents to the proposal. She is made Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, with the emblem of a raven now present on the armor of the sworn brotherhood, an ode to Bran's status as the Three-Eyed Raven. While reading the The Book of Brothers, she comes upon Jaime's entry and decides to complete it. She praises his actions and says he "died defending his queen", welling up while writing it.
Brienne attends the newly reformed Small Council.
Brienne later takes part in the first meeting of the Small Council, under the stewardship of Tyrion, the new Hand of the King. She tells Podrick to take Bran away from the meeting so he can focus on finding Drogon, who has been seen flying towards Volantis, using his abilities as a warg. When Bronn suggests rebuilding the city's brothels (since all of the well-known ones were destroyed following the Battle of King's Landing), she expresses disapproval at the thought of prioritizing it over rebuilding the royal fleet, which clearly takes precedence due to the lack of ships in the Six Kingdoms following the war for Westeros.
Brienne has spent most of her life as the object of scorn, rejection and – at best – pity. When she tried to dress and act like a proper lady, she was met with mockery and disdain for her unattractive appearance and lack of feminine social graces; when she turned to a career more suited to her talents as a warrior, she received only contempt and resentment for her gender despite her considerable skill. These aspects of her life have resulted in her being penalized by Westerosi society due to unconventionality.
Brienne faces down the Kingslayer.
Her lifetime of scorn and condescension led her to becoming extremely pragmatic and blunt. However, it has also provided her with nerves of Valyrian steel, and she is completely unafraid to face off against warriors as powerful or as intimidating as Jaime Lannister (arguably the best sword in the realm), Loras Tyrell (a renowned warrior) and even Sandor Clegane (a physically brutal and extremely intimidating person with an infamous temper).
Perhaps because of this background, Brienne is as awkward in personality as she is in appearance; Catelyn Stark notices that she has none of the easy confidence of some other warrior women. She yearns for respect and acceptance from others, and easily gives her love and loyalty to the few people who treat her with any degree of genuine courtesy. Renly Baratheon, Catelyn Stark, and Jaime Lannister are among those who have won Brienne's friendship and service in this manner. Brienne, much like Eddard Stark, is motivated by her own sense of honor and duty, thus seeing most dishonorable acts as unacceptable. She often faces situations where her honor is eclipsed and opposed by her heart, since she confessed to Jaime that her failure to sway the Blackfish would result in the two of them fighting one another again, saying so in a tone that states outright she doesn't want to fight him - even though she has a considerable chance of defeating him.
She can be headstrong, sarcastic, cynical and judgmental, but she is also honest, straightforward, loyal, and determined. Although she has received extremely poor treatment from most knights, Brienne clings to a naively idealized concept of knighthood. Despite – or perhaps because of – the fact that she has no expectation of ever being recognized by society for her accomplishments and strength of character, she nevertheless strives to live up to the ideal of a true knight at all times. Brienne adheres to the expectations and guidelines of knighthood almost formally, since she expressed at the climax of her fight with the Hound that she had no wish to kill him (which he ignored and continued to fight her), and also carried out the killing of Stannis Baratheon as if it were an official execution, even permitting him any last words. However, she incorrectly cited that Renly was the rightful king, even though he was second to Stannis, but this was done mostly out of personal loyalty. Evidently, Brienne expressed considerable joy when she was eventually knighted by Jaime prior to the Battle of Winterfell and was applauded by those who had witnessed it. This brought Brienne things she had craved for her entire life: becoming a knight surrounded by genuine companions who fully accepted her.
Brienne has proven herself to be one of the strongest fighters in Westeros, albeit the most underrated. In combat, she relies on a combination of her intimidating size, strength, and unrelenting brute force to win most fights. This unrelenting style is what allowed her to defeat Loras Tyrell and Sandor Clegane, two of the greatest swordsmen in the realm. She could fight three men at the same time, beat two armored soldiers in a confined space and hold her ground against Jaime Lannister. Even after she was presented with a prominent disadvantage, such as being disarmed, she would resort brutally to continue fighting, shown when she proceeded to fight the Hound even after he'd ridden her of her sword. Jaime confessed that he considered her a good fighter, even before they became friends.
Brienne of Tarth is extremely noble and humble at all times, as evidenced by her confessing at several points that she was not a knight, and at one point not even a lady - even though she was inevitably a lady of Tarth as the only daughter of Lord Selwyn Tarth. This was probably motivated by her self-induced belief that she was inferior to the standards of a true knight, given that she has faced being underrated and underappreciated for her appearance and gender her whole life. The irony of the entire situation is that she exemplifies the qualities of a true knight: She is a strong and skilled fighter, is merciful and compassionate, unshakably loyal and determined, and takes her duties as a warrior sworn to a higher authority extremely seriously. The only reason she isn't viewed as such by the people of the Seven Kingdoms is because she is a woman.
For her role as Brienne, Christie extensively trained to get into the right physical condition, as well as cutting off her long hair and reading all of the available novels to study her character's development in detail. She has said that Brienne is very different from her own personality and style. As a trained dancer and photography model, she favors heels and lots of make-up. In her interview with SFX magazine she talks about the way fans made her aware of the part. She found her name posted on a website as the one who should play Brienne, and then when she asked her agent about this part, he had already been emailed by another fan informing him of it.
Many actresses auditioned, and Gwendolyn Christie came dressed and in character. According to author George R.R. Martin, "This was another one of those cases where there was hardly any debate. The day the first batch of auditions went up for the role, we looked at a dozen actresses who were reading for Brienne, and one actress who WAS Brienne."
On the Season 3 Blu-ray, Brienne narrates the Histories & Lore video "The Stormlands."
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Brienne is considered ugly and ungainly, but is immensely skilled at combat. She is taller and stronger than many men, and her father and his head of household guards have trained her for many years in the arts of combat. Some people consider her a freak, while other men hope to marry her to inherit her father's wealthy lands. For her part, Brienne yearns for respect, acceptance and a chance to prove her valor in a worthy cause.
Brienne is described as homely: her hair is a squirrel's nest of dirty straw; her features are broad and coarse; her teeth are prominent and crooked; her mouth is too wide; her lips are so plump they seemed swollen; a thousand freckles speckle her cheeks and brow; and her nose had been broken more than once. Her only lovely feature is her eyes, large and very blue, trusting and guileless. A very few people (Renly, Cortnay Penrose, Catelyn, Jaime, and Podrick) see beyond her ugliness and realize that she is honest, decent and honorable, if also naive and stubborn.
Brienne becomes a POV character in the fourth novel. In the second and third novels, her actions are narrated and interpreted from the POV of Catelyn and Jaime.
Brienne is the oldest daughter of Lord Selwyn of Tarth. She had two younger sisters but they both died in the cradle. She had an older brother named Galladon, but he drowned when she was eight years old, leaving her as Selwyn's only surviving child and heir. The TV series vaguely acknowledged this in Season 5's episode "High Sparrow" when she described herself as her father's only "living child." She has been engaged to marry three times (contracts made by her father, none of which ended well):
When Brienne was young, Septa Roelle was her tutor. Instead of helping Brienne to gain confidence despite her ugliness, Roelle did the opposite: she kept telling Brienne that she was freakish big, mannish and slow learner, and that men talked to her kindly only because they wanted to win her father’s favor.
The books don't make specific mention of her mother: in the TV series she says that she never knew her, implying that she died when Brienne was very young. Brienne has a good relationship with her father and describes him as a good man. She notes that (since her mother died) he is in a relationship with a new female romantic interest every year or so.
According to author George R.R. Martin, Brienne in the books is supposed to be unusually tall and muscular for a woman, but not freakishly so. She is above six feet tall but not near seven feet (i.e. actress Gwendoline Christie matches this at 6 feet 3 inches). She is taller than Jaime Lannister or Renly Baratheon, and significantly more heavyset. Still, she is not quite as tall as either Greatjon Umber or Sandor Clegane (i.e. Rory McCann, who plays the latter, is 6'6").
There is widespread fan speculation that Brienne of Tarth is a descendant of the famous knight Duncan the Tall, who eventually rose to be Lord Commander of the Kingsguard under his friend King Aegon V Targaryen. Ser Duncan ("Dunk") and Aegon "Egg" Targaryen are the two main characters in the "Tales of Dunk and Egg" prequel novellas, which start about 90 years before Game of Thrones begins. George R.R. Martin has stated that, with time-jumps in between each story, he intends for the prequel novellas to cover the entire lives of Dunk and Egg, up until about 50 years ago. There are three pieces of evidence that Brienne might be Duncan's descendant:
There is also speculation that Hodor may be a descendant of Ser Duncan, as Hodor is also extremely tall, over seven feet in height, and the upcoming fourth prequel novella, The She-Wolves of Winterfell, reveals that Ser Duncan traveled to Winterfell. At one point Bran has a greensight vision of the past, and sees a very large man "as tall as Hodor" in the Winterfell godswood, being kissed by a slender young woman - who might have been Old Nan.
Speaking at Balticon 2016, George R.R. Martin seemed to have all but confirmed that Brienne is a descendant of Duncan the Tall: a fan asked him if he would eventually decide how Brienne is specifically descended from Ser Duncan - not "if" she is descended from Ser Duncan - and his short answer was that he hadn't decided yet. This would seem to confirm that she is descended from Ser Duncan, but Martin hadn't at the time figured out the intervening generations.
She first met Renly when he came to Tarth to see her father who was his bannerman. He treated her with courtesy and respect. He danced with her, and she has been in love with him ever since. Lady Catelyn realizes this the first time she sees Brienne looking at Renly (down at him, as she stands a half-hand taller than him). Brienne always tries to be at Renly's side. She offers to guard him the night before the battle, but Renly says no as he and Loras are going to "pray together privately." He accepts her offer to come before dawn to arm him for the battle, others who hear this snicker, and Lady Catelyn thinks it sad that she is thought of as a joke, because she acts the part of a squire and dresses him just to have the opportunity to touch him.
According to Loras, Renly thought that Brienne was absurd - a woman dressed in man's mail, pretending to be a knight. Yet he kept her close, because all his other knights wanted things of him, castles or honors or riches, but all that Brienne wanted was to die for him. Loras also believes that Brienne killed Renly. When she and Jaime return to King's Landing, Loras (a member of the Kingsguard in the book narrative) confronts Brienne and orders her to draw her sword. Jaime intervenes and warns Loras that Brienne is as strong as Gregor Clegane, and if Loras duels her it will likely be his corpse that is carried away afterwards.
When Brienne joined Renly's army, he greeted her courteously and welcomed her to his service. She expected the other knights to treat her with coldness and mockery, but to her surprise many of them were exceedingly kind to her, going above and beyond the others to win her favor, except Randyll Tarly who was openly hostile toward her. Brienne was confused and suspicious to be treated so warmly. The mystery was solved when Dickon Tarly overheard by chance four knights talking about a wager that three of the soldiers put on the first who could claim Brienne's maidenhead, and many others joined the contest. Dickon told his father, and Randyll put an end to the wager, knowing that some of the challengers were less honorable than others, and it was only a matter of time before one of them decided to claim the prize by force. He told Brienne about the wager, bluntly claiming it was her fault. Brienne was deeply offended, and said that she came to fight and never did anything to encourage those knights. Randyll was not appeased, and told her that her presence alone encouraged them because a war host is no place for a maiden.
After Brienne remains at Harrenhal when Jaime is sent away by Roose Bolton, Vargo Hoat (Locke in the TV series) attempts to rape her, but she fights him off, biting off his ear in the process. Jaime is amused when he later learns that the wound festered, driving Hoat half mad with the pain.
After she is dispatched by Jaime to find and protect Sansa, Brienne spends most of her time in the Riverlands, fruitlessly seeking information on Sansa's whereabouts; unbeknownst to her, she is on the wrong track right from the beginning, since Sansa is in the Vale. During an encounter with the Brave Companions, Brienne learns to know that the Hound was seen with a Stark girl; Brienne incorrectly assumes that was Sansa. At the Quiet Isle, the Elder Brother tells Brienne the girl who accompanied the Hound was not Sansa but Arya. These pieces of information do not help Brienne find Arya either.
Podrick Payne runs away from King's Landing and meets up with Brienne at Maidenpool, hoping that if they find Sansa, they will also find Tyrion. During a bloody encounter with three of the Brave Companions (Timeon, Pyg and Shagwell), Pod helps Brienne by throwing a stone at Shagwell's head, stunning him while Brienne deals with the other thugs, and eventually kills all the three.
She and Pod never encounter Arya or the Hound, though they do meet Rorge (who is posing as the Hound) and Biter near the Inn at the Crossroads. Brienne kills Rorge, but is badly wounded in a savage fight with Biter, before he is killed by Gendry.
Brienne, Pod and their companion Hyle Hunt are taken captive by the Brotherhood Without Banners, now led by the monstrous Lady Stoneheart (the reanimated Catelyn Stark). She is accused of serving the Lannisters, since she carries a Lannister sword and a parchment signed by Tommen.
Brienne, shocked to see the monster Catelyn turned into, tells her she was looking for Sansa, and that Jaime has changed; her words fall on deaf ears. Lady Stoneheart incorrectly believes that Jaime was involved in the Red Wedding, and gives Brienne a choice: "Take the sword and slay the Kingslayer, or be hanged for a betrayer." Brienne refuses to make the choice; Lady Stoneheart commands to hang them. As the ropes tighten, Brienne screams a word in order to save her companions.
In A Dance with Dragons, after resolving the siege of Raventree Hall, Jaime meets Brienne at Pennytree. Jaime is stunned to see her injuries. Brienne tells him that she found Sansa, and "I can take you to her, ser... but you will need to come alone. Elsewise, the Hound will kill her." It is obvious (to the readers) that Brienne is lying, since Sansa is in the Vale, and the Hound's fate is unknown. It appears Brienne intends to lead Jaime into a trap; the chapter ends with a cliffhanger.
Brienne never finds Sansa and thus does not travel to Winterfell to rescue her, nor does she kill Stannis. She does meet up with Jaime again while he is pacifying the Riverlands, but has no involvement in the Siege of Riverrun. In the TV series, her storyline has been somewhat merged with that of Mance Rayder, who infiltrates Winterfell to rescue Arya from Ramsay (unaware that it is a disguised Jeyne Poole), although unlike Mance, Brienne ultimately does not enter Winterfell.
Brienne and Cersei have no interactions throughout the novels. In the fifth novel Cersei is told that Jaime was seen in Brienne's company. She vaguely remembers Brienne as "a huge, ugly, shambling thing who dressed in man's mail." It is unknown where she met Brienne; since Brienne was arrested at Jaime's order (for her own protection) as soon as they entered King's Landing, and left shortly after Jaime released her, Cersei could not have met her.
Brienne always presents herself or is announced as "Brienne of Tarth", and never "Brienne Tarth", which would also be correct. The reason for this naming preference is not known.
Brienne's name did not appear in the Season 1 pronunciation guide, but the phonetic pronunciation of her name was later seen written out in a behind-the-scenes short video: "bree-ANN."
Castle Black, near the center of the Wall
Castle Black is the primary headquarters and redoubt of the Night's Watch. It is located roughly halfway along the length of the Wall on its southern side, at the northern end of the Kingsroad. It is a dark and chilling home to its garrison.
Castle Black was, initially, one of only three manned castles left on the Wall along with Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and the Shadow Tower. There are nineteen castles along the Wall, but as their numbers fell over the centuries, the Night's Watch abandoned sixteen of them. Castle Black is located between the unmanned castles of Queensgate and Oakenshield.
Castle Black has a sept, but no godswood. Those who are followers of the Old Gods of the Forest must travel a mile north of the Wall, into the Haunted Forest to take their vows before a heart tree.
After learning of the breaching of the Wall, Jon Snow orders the remaining castles on the Wall be abandoned and for their garrisons to come to Winterfell.
The Free Folk is the self-given name for the people who live in the lands beyond the Wall, still on the continent of Westeros but beyond the northern border of the Seven Kingdoms. The name they employ makes reference to their society, which recognizes no inherent or hereditary political authority, except for leaders whom they choose to follow. The people of the Seven Kingdoms refer to the Free Folk derogatorily as "wildlings," while the Free Folk refer to those south of the Wall as "kneelers."
Normally the wildlings are divided into many different rival clans, but occasionally, they unite behind a single over-chieftain known as a King-Beyond-the-Wall, as they were under Mance Rayder. The Free Folk are now allies of House Stark after many of their people were saved by Jon Snow.
The term "wildlings" is sometimes also employed to refer to other "savages," such as the members of the hill tribes of the Vale that defy the rule of House Arryn, but out of context, the term is usually understood to refer to the peoples living beyond the Wall.
Periodically throughout history, the Free Folk have been united under a King-Beyond-the-Wall.
The Free Folk are descended from the First Men, as are the inhabitants of the North. They were, essentially, the people unlucky enough to be living north of the Wall when it was constructed eight thousand years ago. Besides this shared ethnic heritage, their common descent means that there are also many cultural similarities between the wildlings and the Northerners. The wildlings are much closer in lifestyle and habits to how the First Men lived thousands of years ago (though they lack the level of political organization that the First Men possessed), as the North has come under some cultural influence from their Andal neighbors who invaded southern Westeros six thousand years ago, and particularly since the Seven Kingdoms were united into a single realm by the Targaryen Conquest three hundred years ago.
The Free Folk have made many attempts to invade the Seven Kingdoms since the construction of the Wall (Jon Snow mentions that there have been six such invasions in the last thousand years, before Mance Rayder). Usually such attacks are led by a King-Beyond-the-Wall, who is elected to lead a force of united tribes and clans.  Despite the bravery and perseverance of the Free Folk, all attempted invasions of the Seven Kingdoms have failed, as those who live north of the Wall lack the weapons, training and organization to defeat their southern counterparts. However, wildlings still launch frequent raids against the northernmost regions.
Over the ages, the people of the Seven Kingdoms to the south had largely forgotten why the Wall was constructed in the first place and came to believe that it exists to protect the realm from the wildlings, whom they regard as primitive savages and barbarians. However, the Night's Watch knows it was originally constructed to defend against the possible return of the near-mythical White Walkers. Since the White Walkers did not return for the past eight thousand years, the Night's Watch has mostly shifted its focus to preventing the wildlings from crossing south of the Wall, and sending out patrols into the wilderness to keep track of wildling movements. The shift of focus also reduced the Night's Watch from a band of honorable warriors into largely a penal colony for exiled criminals, disgraced noblemen, and bastards with no where else to go.
The camp of the Free Folk in the Skirling Pass.
The Free Folk consist of a wide variety of many fractious tribes and village-dwellers, some reasonably refined, others savage and hostile. Different factions have very different cultures and practices, and may speak different languages. They spend much of their time fighting one another over petty squabbles, aside from the times when they are unified by a King-Beyond-the-Wall; as they were under Mance Rayder.
The Free Folk worship the Old Gods of the Forest, like their distant cousins in the North. Even in the lands of House Stark, there are some followers of the Faith of the Seven, often southern noblewomen who come to the North to secure marriage alliances. Beyond the Wall, however, the Old Gods are the only gods that are worshiped.
Women also partake in raids south of the Wall along with their male counterparts. These women warriors are known as spearwives.
A major difference between the Free Folk and the feudal society of the Seven Kingdoms is that the Free Folk do not recognize a class of hereditary nobility in their society. They take great pride in their "free" status, and only follow leaders whom they choose to lead them. While in certain times the clans will unite behind a "King-Beyond-the-Wall", the title and position are not hereditary, as the Free Folk will follow no man simply because of who his father was. The Free Folk will follow a King-Beyond-the-Wall into battle, but they do not perform ceremonies of submission such as kneeling in front of him or referring to him as "your Grace". They call the people of the feudal Seven Kingdoms "Kneelers", because they physically kneel to men who they didn't choose to rule over them. There is no social stratification between high-born lords and low-born smallfolk among the Free Folk.
The other side of the coin is that without a central authority, the Free Folk are so "free" that they don't really have established and enforced laws. A man keeps what he can take, and continues to hold what he can defend. This is somewhat more brutal and chaotic than the feudal society of the Seven Kingdoms, but in some respects their society is more politically egalitarian.
Lacking any major political structure, as well as arable land, most of the Free Folk are hunter-gatherers and lag behind the "kneelers" in terms of technology and education. As the concept of smithing is foreign to most Free Folk, steel gained through trade or raiding is coveted north of the Wall. Horses are also rare, and so the wildlings have no cavalry to speak of. Most settlements are relatively small and their structures are simple when compared to those south of the wall.
The wildlings do not bury their dead, but burn them. This has nothing to do with religion - it is simply done to prevent the White Walkers from resurrecting the deceased as wights. If no fire is available, they will at least try to decapitate or dismember the corpse so it won't make a very useful wight.
At the time of the War of the Five Kings the Free Folk are divided into about 90 different clans or tribes, some of which have long been bitter enemies with each other. Normally they are politically divided, but were united under King-Beyond-the-Wall Mance Rayder for the common goal of forcing their way south of the Wall before the next winter comes, which will bring the White Walkers with it. After his death, Tormund and Jon Snow traveled to Hardhome, along with other members of the Night's Watch and the Free Folk, to attempt to convince the rest of the Free Folk to join them in the upcoming war against the White Walkers and their armies of Wights.
Some of these groups are socially and culturally very different. While many do understand the Common Tongue of the Andals south of the Wall, according to Mance the clans in his army speak seven different languages (including the Common Tongue; otherwise they speak the Old Tongue of the First Men, and its several variants).
Some of these clans or groups include:
The non-human race of giants who live beyond the Wall had also allied itself with Mance Rayder and marched in his wildling army. Loosely speaking they may thus be considered part of the "wildlings", though the inhabitants of the Seven Kingdoms generally use the term to refer to specifically the human clans living beyond the Wall. Of course, this is because until quite recently, those living south of the Wall had thought giants were entirely mythical creatures, and were unaware that they actually existed in the far northern lands beyond the Wall.
Attitudes towards the Free Folk vary but are mostly negative. The Northmen have a bitter feud with the Free Folk due to being at the forefront of the latter's incursions into the Seven Kingdoms. Other kingdoms south of the Wall share similar derisive sentiments, but to a lesser extent, seeing the Free Folk as a light threat and the Night's Watch as an unnecessary organization where criminals and undesirables are sent to join. The Night's Watch itself holds the most bitter views towards Wildlings. For as centuries passed, the White Walkers, the Night's Watch's true enemies, largely came to be considered myths, and Watch's resources have been directed towards fighting the Free Folk for subsequent generations, forgetting the order's real purpose.
While at Castle Black, Tyrion Lannister converses with Benjen Stark and Yoren regarding the Free Folk. While not outright sympathizing with them, Tyrion makes clear his view that the only real difference between the Free Folk and the rest of Westeros is that the former group just happened to live on the northern side of the Wall when it was first constructed 8,000 years ago.
With Jon Snow as an advocate for the free folk and the ongoing threat of the White Walkers, the Free Folk have been granted asylum within the Seven Kingdoms and now live within them, aiding House Stark in the fight against the Night King.
Ygritte, a member of the Free Folk.
By Season 4 to Season 5, costume designer Michele Clapton explained that she developed six different wildling sub-groups by costuming, based on their geographic region (see "Costumes/Beyond the Wall - Wildlings" for more).
Mance Rayder and Jon Snow repeatedly said that in the present day there are about 90 different wildlings clans, but each large region has multiple clans in it (i.e. there may be over a dozen clans of "Hornfoots"). While Clapton did say that there are six different large wildling sub-groups in the TV series, she did not list all of them, except to say that the Thenns were one. She also didn't specify if she included the Giants in this count. Based on her descriptions, however, the six groups appear to be:
This actually matches up with Mance's comment that the clans in his army speak seven different languages (counting those who can speak the Common Tongue as the seventh). Linguist David J. Peterson offered the explanation that when Mance said seven different "languages", this included several variant dialects of Old Tongue. By chance or design, the numbers match up: the six major different wildling geographical sub-groups defined by the costuming department would also probably have six different sub-dialects of the Old Tongue.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Free Folk consist of various factions, such as the people of Thenn, raiders from the Frozen Shore, and settlers and woodsmen in the Haunted Forest. At the time of the books, they are unified under a King-Beyond-the-Wall, Mance Rayder, a former member of the Night's Watch who fled the Wall and betrayed the Sworn Brothers. With the Wall grievously under-strength, as the first book begins, there are fears that the wildlings may try to invade and that Lord Eddard Stark might have to lead his banners against them in a punitive strike.
The wildlings are mostly armed with rather primitive weapons, made of bone, stone, wood and dragonglass (it is unclear whether they know that dragonglass is lethal to the Others). The Thenns work bronze, and raiders like the Weeper carry stolen steel and iron swords looted off corpses.
When a wildling man wants a wife (wildling or non-wildling), it is custom that he must kidnap her, while risking severe injury or even death by the woman and her relatives, and the woman must fight back. As a rule, the wildlings do not kidnap married women. Ygritte explains to Jon - who is unaware of this custom - that if the man succeeds, it shows that he is strong, brave and cunning, and this is what wildling women seek in men. If the man turns out to be an abusive husband, the wife can always slit his throat. Because Jon captured Ygritte (albeit, he was unaware of this custom and didn't know Ygritte was a woman when he and Qhorin Halfhand captured the group of wildlings in which she happened to be) and because Jon saved her life, Ygritte and Tormund point out to Jon that he and Ygritte could be considered technically married (according to loose wildling customs, which are not strictly defined "laws"). This stuns Jon, who reveals this was not his intent and his capture of her/saving her life was not for sex.
The wildlings prefer to kidnap women far from their villages, rather than from their own clan, and it is considered a great sin to marry relatives. The Old Gods of the Forest, worshiped by both the Free Folk and the Northmen, don't have as many formal rules as the Faith of the Seven, but their religion still maintains a few fundamental social prohibitions, one of which forbids Incest. While the wildlings have no knowledge about genetics, they understand that inbreeding may result in weak and sickly children. Thus, what Craster is doing with his daughter-wives is considered an abomination, even by the other wildlings and not remotely acceptable behavior by their own standards.
Since the wildlings do not receive any formal education, illiteracy is common among them. When Jon shows Tormund the Bastard Letter, Tormund admits that he cannot read.
Due to the harsh conditions Beyond the Wall, the wildlings have a high infant mortality rate and believe that naming a baby after birth is an ill-omen. Therefore, they do not give their babies names at all until they have survived to two years of age; they do sometimes give their babies "milk names" in the meantime.
Knights flying the banner of House Arryn galloping through the Vale.
Map showing the location of the Vale of Arryn on the continent of Westeros.
The Vale of Arryn, often referred to simply as the Vale, is one of the constituent regions of the Six Kingdoms. Prior to the War of Conquest, it was a sovereign nation known as the Kingdom of Mountain and Vale. It is ruled by House Arryn from their stronghold, the Eyrie. Protected and surrounded by the Mountains of the Moon, the Vale is isolated from the rest of Westeros and is accessible only during warmer seasons.
Bastards born in the Vale are given the surname Stone.
The Vale is where the Andals first landed and assailed from during their invasion of Westeros six thousand years ago, though as settlement patterns became established, the Reach became the main population center and cultural heartland of the Andals. Still, because of its isolated, mountainous terrain, noble families from the Vale are said to have among the purest Andal bloodlines within Westeros. While some other noble families on the continent can claim the same, the Vale is unique to this as a region.
There are many small tribes who inhabit the foothills of the Mountains of the Moon. These tribes are commonly known as the hill tribes, and they reject the rule of House Arryn. Although they are dangerous to passing travelers, their lack of organization and less advanced weaponry means they pose little threat to the rest of Westeros.
During the War of the Five Kings, under the regency of Lady Lysa Arryn after the death of Jon Arryn, the Vale followed a strict policy of neutrality until the very last stages of the conflict and was thus able to keep its resources and army, the formidable knights of the Vale, nearly intact. The young Lord Robin Arryn, under the wing of the manipulative Lord Protector Petyr Baelish, consented to join the war when they came to the aid of their old allies of House Stark in their campaign to retake Winterfell and the North from House Bolton at the Battle of the Bastards. In the aftermath of the battle, the lords of the Vale and the North hailed Jon Snow, bastard of House Stark, as the King in the North, thus seceding from the sovereignty of the Iron Throne and joining the Kingdom of the North until Jon pledged himself to Daenerys Targaryen during her invasion. Robin chose to recognize Bran Stark as the new king after her assassination.
Unlike the Westerlands, the mountains of the Vale are much less hospitable and more difficult to traverse. While the mountains of the Westerlands are filled with precious metals such as gold and silver, the mountains of the Vale are not particularly rich in resources. The valleys scattered between the harsh mountains, however, are as fertile as any in the Riverlands. The Vale's mountains are well-known for their strategic defensibility.
The knights of the Vale charging into the Battle of the Bastards.
House Arryn commanded a formidable military prior to the outbreak of the War of the Five Kings, capable of fielding thousands of men. As one of the wealthiest Great Houses, the Vale's forces are numerous in the Seven Kingdoms, though still lack behind numerically compared to the Lannisters. Like the Reach and Dorne, the strength of the Vale has remained mostly unscathed during the War of the Five Kings. Nevertheless, it is clear that the Vale has an advantageous leverage compared to the largely-depleted Lannisters in terms of manpower.
The wealth of House Arryn is due to the fertile areas of the Vale and trade from ports such as Gulltown. This is particularly evidenced by the high-quality swords and armor purchased thus granting superior equipment to the Vale army compared to the Riverlands or the North.
The Vale soldiers are outfitted with silver plated armor with possible chainmail beneath, adding further protection to the wearer. Furthermore, they are equipped circular or kite-shaped shields emblazoned with House Arryn's moon-and-falcon sigil. The armor is often accessorized with blue or white cloaks resembling a falcon's wings. This design, while not aesthetically impressive, is symbolic since the Vale soldiers are often referred to as the "knights of the Vale". The design also provides practicality in warfare with the combination of wool and steel plates allowing considerable protection and mobility for the wearer. This makes them nimbler than other soldiers who might be wearing heavy plates of armor, while retaining the defensive properties of armor. Vale infantry helmets are comparable to Northern helm's in terms of appearance with the lack of cheek guards and intricacy in design.
Due to Lysa Arryn's decision to maintain the Vale's neutrality, the Vale forces were not affected by the War of the Five Kings and remained at full strength. Thus, the Vale gained significant leverage both politically and militarily compared to the weakened regions caused by the war. The knights of the Vale appear to be well-trained, experienced, and well-organized especially in times of conflict, like during Robert's Rebellion, fighting and prevailing in several battles, like the Battle of the Bastards, where the Vale cavalry was able to easily defeat the Bolton phalanx, apparently without significant losses to their own side.
Unlike the Lannister or Tyrell armies, the knights of the Vale have significant experience battling in ice and snow, due to their homeland's mountainous landscape and cold winter temperatures. This makes them natural allies for the Northerns, who regularly face the harshest winters in Westeros.
Sansa mentions that there are 20,000 men in the North; based on Jon's comment that there are fewer than 10,000 men in the North, it can be concluded that about 10,000 men of Vale's forces were sent to Winterfell. After the Battle of Winterfell, half of the forces of the Vale are obliterated.
The Vale forces later partake in the Battle of King's Landing alongside the Stark and Targaryen troops, apparently not taking significant losses.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the term "Vale" refers to the entire region ruled by the Arryns, as well as the Vale itself, which runs from the foot of the Giant's Lance almost to the sea. The Arryns rule the Vale from their castle known as the Eyrie. Before the Andal Invasion, the region was originally known as the Kingdom of Mountain and Vale. During the time the Arryn dynasty ruled the Vale, the region was also alternatively known as the Kingdom of Vale and Sky.
The people of the Vale, popularly called "valemen", are known as honorable, reliable warriors steeped in honor and the worship of the Faith of the Seven.
Some of the valemen living in the foothills of the Mountains of the Moon have rejected the authority of the Eyrie and exist as little more than clans and tribes of savage warriors, such as the Black Ears and Burned Men. While dangerous to passing travelers, they lack the number and equipment to properly invade or trouble the Vale.
The borders of the Vale are held to be the Bite to the north, the Bay of Crabs to the south, the Mountains of the Moon to the west and the Narrow Sea to the east.
Details:
The Battle of the Bastards is a battle late in the War of the Five Kings in which Jon Snow and Sansa Stark retake Winterfell from Lord Ramsay Bolton, the Warden of the North, and restore House Stark as the ruling house of the North.
With the death of King Robb Stark and most of his bannermen at the Red Wedding, the Iron Throne names House Bolton the new ruling Great House of the North. However, to cement their hold on the North following the murders of Joffrey Baratheon and Tywin Lannister, they betray the Lannisters and secure a marriage alliance through Lord Petyr Baelish between Sansa (formerly the Lannisters' hostage) and Ramsay Bolton, Lord Roose Bolton's recently-legitimized bastard son. With help from the Boltons' prisoner, Theon Greyjoy, Sansa escapes her home during Stannis Baratheon's ill-fated attack on Winterfell and flees to Castle Black with Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne, where she reunites with her half-brother, Jon Snow, who was on the verge of leaving the Night's Watch following his death and resurrection.
Since Sansa has escaped and is being sheltered by Jon, while Roose Bolton has recently sired a son with his new wife, Walda Bolton, Ramsay's position as Roose's heir is uncertain. In order to secure his position, Ramsay murders his father in cold blood and has his stepmother and newborn half-brother mauled to death by his hounds, making him the new head of House Bolton, Lord of the Dreadfort, Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North.
Sansa urges her brother to help her retake Winterfell from the Boltons but Jon, weary from fighting, is reluctant at first. However, Jon agrees when he receives a letter from Ramsay, in which Ramsay threatens Jon's younger brother Rickon and sister Sansa, as well as the wildlings. In the letter, Ramsay reveals he is holding Rickon hostage, and demands the return of Sansa on threat of murdering the wildlings and Rickon, before having Sansa gang-raped. Jon and Sansa resolve to march on the Boltons to save their younger brother and retake Winterfell.
With the Karstarks and Umbers having declared for Ramsay due to their anger toward Robb and Jon respectively, Jon and Sansa are forced to recruit the meager forces of the minor Houses to aid them. They persuade the Free Folk, House Mazin, House Hornwood, and House Mormont to join them, while Robett Glover, head of House Glover, refuses to declare for them, citing both his hatred for the wildlings and his anger at Robb for failing to protect them from Balon Greyjoy's invasion. Sansa sends Brienne to the Riverlands to treat with her great-uncle, Brynden Tully, who is under siege at Riverrun. Unfortunately, Brynden refuses to leave his home and is later killed when the castle falls to House Frey and House Lannister. Brienne and Podrick are able to escape through the river.
After only being able to recruit a small number of minor houses, they are still heavily outnumbered, but Jon is adamant that they attack Winterfell as soon as possible to prevent Ramsay gathering more men or the weather turning against them, like it did for Stannis Baratheon. Sansa argues they need more men and wants to try to recruit more houses. When Jon argues there is no more time, Sansa secretly writes a letter to Littlefinger calling for help.
On the day before the battle, the Stark leadership agrees to parley with the Boltons. Ramsay immediately offers terms for Jon's surrender, claiming that his men will not be harmed, he will be pardoned for deserting his post as Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, if Sansa is given to him and Jon bends the knee and acknowledges him as the Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North. Jon rejects this, knowing that Ramsay has broken his own surrender terms multiple times in the past, and instead opts for a different solution to save both the armies: single combat to determine the fate of the North. Ramsay rejects Jon in turn, as he has heard of Jon's reputation as the best swordsman in the North, and he knows his army is more numerous and better equipped than Jon's. Jon retorts by pointing out that Ramsay's army is built on shaky loyalty, whereas his own know that their leader would live and die for them. This angers Ramsay, and prompts him to threaten to kill Rickon if Jon will not surrender. It is at this moment Sansa questions whether Ramsay really has their brother; Smalljon Umber answers by pulling out Shaggydog's severed head and throwing it at their feet. When Ramsay starts to speak again, Sansa confidently tells him that he is going to die when they meet on the battlefield the next day and to sleep well.
At the Stark camp, plans are drawn up for the coming battle. Knowing that Ramsay's numbers are superior, and Tormund not wanting to be annihilated by mounted soldiers as when Stannis and Davos defeated the wildings, they will instead bait him into a "double envelopment", using his recklessness and anger against him. After Davos, Tormund, and the rest of the lords are dismissed for the evening, Sansa approaches Jon, rebukes him for not consulting her, and tells him he doesn't know how Ramsay's mind works, how he likes toying with people. Sansa and Jon argue, with Sansa telling Jon they need more men and wanting to attack with a larger force, and Jon believing they have already recruited all the men who will fight for them. Jon vows he will protect Sansa but Sansa, jaded by years of failures and disappointments, replies that no one can protect her or anyone now.
Meanwhile, Davos and Tormund take a walk out into the camp, comparing their experiences serving Stannis and Mance, respectively, and the ultimate futility of believing in kings. After some banter, Davos walks up the hill to where he sees a funeral pyre. Spotting and picking up the toy stag he gave to Shireen before Stannis' ill fated attack on the Boltons, he comes to the conclusion that Melisandre must have sacrificed Shireen to the Lord of Light.
Melisandre herself is in her tent when approached by Jon, who asks her not to resurrect him again. She replies that she has no power to do so; she can only use what the Lord has given her, and that he was resurrected for a reason. What that reason is, no one knows.
The battle begins with the Stark army deployed near a treeline, to prevent themselves from being taken unaware from behind. Across the field is the much larger Bolton army, who have placed archery distance markers with burning, flayed corpses attached to them, in an effort to demoralize the Stark troops. Ramsay himself trots out on his horse to the front of the formation, bringing along a prisoner: Rickon Stark himself. Ramsay acts at first as if he will slit Rickon's throat, but instead cuts his bonds and delightfully insists that he play a game. He points at Jon and tells Rickon, "Run to your brother." Rickon starts running in a straight line toward Jon, while Ramsay shoots and misses with a war bow. Just when Rickon is about to reach Jon, however, Ramsay's final shot hits Rickon in the heart, killing him almost instantly.
Enraged and maddened with grief, Jon charges full tilt at the Bolton army, who immediately loose their arrows on him. Alarmed, Davos orders in the Stark cavalry to charge after their commander, with the infantry closely following behind. His horse shot out from under him, Jon prepares for his last stand by drawing Longclaw and facing the Bolton cavalry seemingly alone. He is saved by the timely arrival of the Stark cavalry, and the battle becomes a bloody storm of swords. Men fall in battle so quickly that they begin to form small hills of the dead.
Ramsay orders his own archers to shoot at both the Stark forces and their own cavalry, while Davos refrains from doing the same and leads his archers to join Jon Snow and the others in to battle. The arrows kill both Stark and Bolton men, and soon the small hills become a wall of the fallen. Although Ramsay loses many of his men to friendly fire, it becomes clear that they are intentionally being sacrificed as part of a sadistic plan to prevent his enemy from retreating. Seeing the Stark infantry and archers along with Wun Wun engaging in combat with the Bolton forces, Ramsay sends forward his remaining forces, which Smalljon Umber leads into battle. The Bolton infantry manage to surround the remaining Stark army and close them in with a shield phalanx.
The phalanx acts as a noose, tightening around the beleaguered Stark forces, who by now are dying in droves. As they retreat toward the wall of dead, they trample the wounded and squeeze so tightly in the confined space that they are unable to properly move. Smalljon leads a small force over the wall of dead to ensure that none are able to escape. Jon is barely able to save himself from being crushed to death.
The knights of the Vale relieve the surrounded Stark army.
Ramsay is beaten by Jon Snow.
Just when all hope seems lost for the Starks and Free Folk, a war horn sounds off in the distance. Around the bend appears a large mounted host of the knights of the Vale, led by Lord Baelish, Lady Sansa, and Lord Yohn Royce. The newly arrived Arryn reinforcements quickly turn the tide in favor of the Starks. With the phalanx facing inward towards the Stark forces, the Vale knights are able to attack on the Boltons' undefended side, wiping away Ramsay's phalanx and freeing the Stark soldiers. Tormund kills the Smalljon in a brutal duel. Ramsay, now without a fighting force, decides to retreat to Winterfell to hold out in a siege. Jon, in a murderous fury, gives chase alongside Tormund and Wun Wun.
Despite his general's concerns, Ramsay expresses confidence they can withstand the Starks since they hold Winterfell. His plan goes awry, however, when Wun Wun breaks down the main gate, allowing the Starks and Arryns to pour through. They kill all remaining Bolton men in the castle. Wun Wun collapses to his knees after being hit by arrows, bolts, and javelins. Before Jon can comfort his friend, however, Ramsay kills the giant with an arrow through the eye. Ramsay, refusing to surrender, taunts Jon, saying that he finally accepted his proposal of single combat, before shooting arrows at an unarmed Jon. Jon grabs a shield from a fallen Mormont soldier and while boldly advancing, blocks three of Ramsay's shots. When he reaches Ramsay, he smacks the bow out of his hands and knocks him to the ground. With Ramsay down, Jon pins him and proceeds to beat him savagely. Though it seems as if he will kill Ramsay, Jon stops when he sees Sansa, realizing that she has as much right to revenge as he does. Jon orders Ramsay locked in the kennels, and the Flayed Man banners drop to the ground in a cluttered heap while the Direwolf banner is raised above Winterfell for the first time in three years. The Boltons' rule of the North is over, and House Stark and its allies retake the North with a decisive victory (although not without great cost).
Ramsay in his final moments.
The victory, while a decisive one for the Starks, was not without great cost, even if it marked the restoration of House Stark as the Great House of the North and the entry of House Arryn into the War of Five Kings on their side. Out of Jon's original force of 2,400 men, perhaps only 800 survived, and now no Northern house has a true force to stand against Littlefinger, the Night King, the Iron Throne, or even Daenerys Targaryen, should one of them decide to conquer the North, save for those who sat out of the conflict, such as the Manderlys, the Cerwyns, and the Glovers. What is worse, the heir apparent to Winterfell, Rickon, is now dead, leaving the newly restored Great House in the hands of an illegitimate son and an eldest daughter. Jon orders Rickon to be buried next to their father, while Sansa decides to visit Ramsay in the kennels, ironically the same place he kept Theon over the course of a year.
Upon seeing Sansa, he tries to goad her one last time, telling her that he will always be a part of her now. She throws back the insult by pointing out that very soon, the legacy of himself and his house will be forever erased from history. Ramsay soon notices his hounds coming closer to him, the kennel doors having been left open. Scoffing, the former Lord of Winterfell tells his wife that his hounds are loyal to him, to which she reminds him that he starved them for seven days and that they were loyal, but now they are starving. As if to prove her point, his alpha hound does not respond to his command to heel, instead hungrily sniffing and licking his bloody face. Overcome by hunger, the hound proceeds to savagely maul his face and the others follow suit. As Ramsay Bolton is devoured alive by his own dogs, Sansa turns and walks away, savoring the sounds of her husband's demise as she smiles.
With Ramsay's death, the Starks finally avenge the role that House Bolton played in the Red Wedding by leaving the Bane of the North completely extinct, as well as bringing a permanent end to the ancient feud between the Starks and the Boltons. With the North no longer divided between Houses loyal to the Starks and Boltons, Jon is named the new King in the North by the Northern Lords, and turns his attention to finding potential allies to counter the Night King and his coming army of the dead.
With the deaths of Harald Karstark and Smalljon Umber, Alys Karstark and Ned Umber become the heads of House Karstark and House Umber, respectively, and renew their houses' oaths of fealty to House Stark.
In the celebrations that followed the defeat of the Night King and his forces in the Battle of Winterfell, the Hound and Sansa speak about how Sansa killed Ramsay by feeding him to his own hounds.
The Stark-Free Folk army
According to Davos and Sansa, the Starks have gathered 2,000 wildlings, 62 Mormont soldiers, 200 Hornwoods and 143 Mazins. There are also several Stark men-at-arms present. This brings Jon's host to the size of over 2,405 men, as well as a giant, Wun Wun. Most of the soldiers are infantry, and the rest are archers and cavalry, creating a disadvantage against the Bolton forces. Only an estimated sixth of the original force survives the battle.
The Bolton army
At the parley one day before the battle, Ramsay states that he has 6,000 men (including his allies, the Karstark and Umber troops). He is rumored to command some 5,000 Bolton men, although possibly weakened after the Battle of Winterfell against Stannis; the numbers of the Karstark and Umber troops are unknown.
Most of Ramsay's horsemen are killed after the charge and ensuing melee against Jon's cavalry, also suffering losses as Ramsay's own archers begin to rain arrows on friend and foe alike. Ramsay's infantry were mostly comprised of pikemen, shield-bearers, and mixed infantry - these men were annihilated by the Arryn cavalry late in the battle, when they are hit from behind.
A token force of mostly archers and a few crossbowmen remains holding Winterfell, most of which are killed when remnants of the Stark army take the castle.
The knights of the Vale arrive.
Due to the altitude in the Vale, the Arryn troops are trained to fight in winter conditions, a huge advantage in the North. According to Sansa, the expeditionary force (cavalry, as seen in the episode) consists of 2,000 men, still leaving the pro-Stark forces at a numerical disadvantage. However, by the time they arrive, the Northern armies have nearly wiped each other out, with the Bolton forces having clearly suffered much higher casualties than the Stark forces. The all-cavalry Arryn force also has a clear qualitative advantage, and is able to wipe out the remaining Boltons and rescue what remains of the Stark force with ease.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, no such battle has taken place yet. The fifth and most recent novel, A Dance with Dragons, ends with Stannis still marching against Winterfell and Jon's death. Given that season six onward is based on an outline of what will happen in future novels, the battle, or a different version of it, rather, may serve as the climax of The Winds of Winter.
Torrhen Stark bends the knee to Aegon I Targaryen and his sisters, foreverafter becoming known as "the King Who Knelt"
"Bending the knee" is a formal act of submission to a king, queen or lord, a recognition of authority and a demonstration of fealty. It is common for surrendering parties to bend the knee after being defeated in a war or rebellion; in return, the ruling king or lord will usually treat those that bend the knee with leniency - e.g. Torrhen Stark, the King in the North, bent the knee to Aegon the Conqueror to spare the lives of the people of the North, and was named Warden of the North by Aegon in return.
Lymond Hightower marries with a Gardener princess, becoming a vassal of the Kingdom of the Reach
Masters of Meereen lionizing to their Valyrian conquerors.
The Boltons bend the knee to the Starks.
Nymeria surrounded by the Lords who bend their knees to her.
Harlen Tyrell surrenders Highgarden to Aegon I Targaryen.
Loren Lannister surrenders to Aegon.
Visenya Targaryen flies her dragon over the Eyrie and Ronnel Arryn surrenders in exchange for a ride on the beast.
Lord Manfred Hightower of Oldtown bending his knee peacefully to Aegon I
Mace Tyrell kneels to Robert Baratheon and Eddard Stark.
Balon Greyjoy kneels to Robert Baratheon and Eddard Stark after his failed rebellion.
The Dothraki on Vaes Dothrak bend their knees before Daenerys Targaryen
Yezzan zo Qaggaz kneels to Tyrion Lannister, the Hand of the Queen Daenerys
Lannister-Tarly soldiers bending their knees to the Dragon Queen Daenerys Targaryen.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, bending the knee is mostly considered shameful and disgraceful, but there are exceptions: for instance, Balon Greyjoy believes there is no shame in yielding. He taught his daughter "No man has ever died from bending his knee. He who kneels may rise again, blade in hand. He who will not kneel stays dead, stiff legs and all". Balon has proved the truth of his own words when his first rebellion failed; he bent the knee to the Baratheons and Starks, only to rise again when Robert Baratheon and Eddard Stark were dead.
Asha follows her father's advice after she is defeated and captured by Stannis. She tells him "I yield, Your Grace. Do as you wish with me. I ask only that you spare my men". Stannis agrees to spare her and the very few survivors of her troops.
Queen Daenerys I Targaryen,[N 2] also known as Daenerys Stormborn, and affectionately known as Dany, was the only daughter of King Aerys II Targaryen and Queen Rhaella, and the younger sister of Rhaegar and Viserys Targaryen.
Daenerys was initially a timid, obedient youth. After her marriage to Drogo she gathered the confidence of his khalasar. Following his death, she expanded her dominion into Essos, gaining the loyalty of an army of Unsullied and liberating Slaver's Bay from the Ghiscari slave masters.
During her war for Westeros, Daenerys eventually succumbed to the so-called "Targaryen madness" of her ancestors after a series of personal losses, grief, and betrayal. Razing King's Landing despite its surrender, Daenerys seized power after killing Queen Cersei Lannister, along with countless common folk. Unable to be dissuaded from further destruction, she was assassinated by her nephew Jon Snow to prevent further carnage. She was later succeeded by Bran the Broken, elected by the Great Council of 305 AC.
She formally styled herself as Daenerys Stormborn of House Targaryen, the First of Her Name, Queen of the Andals and the First Men, Protector of the Seven Kingdoms, the Mother of Dragons, the Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, the Unburnt, the Breaker of Chains, though the style was occasionally shortened to Daenerys of the House Targaryen, the First of Her Name, Breaker of Chains and Mother of Dragons.
Daenerys and Viserys live as urchins.
Daenerys was conceived during Robert's Rebellion. To escape Robert Baratheon's wrath after the Sack of King's Landing, in which Daenerys's father, niece, and nephew were killed, the pregnant Queen Rhaella and young Prince Viserys were sent to the island-castle of Dragonstone, where the queen gave birth to Daenerys. On that night, a severe summer storm raged, giving Daenerys the epithet "Stormborn." Her mother died shortly thereafter, leaving Daenerys and her brother orphans.
As a baby, she was taken into exile in the Free Cities with her brother by loyal retainers, among them Ser Willem Darry. After years spent fruitlessly trying to raise support to retake the Iron Throne, Viserys and Daenerys were given sanctuary by Magister Illyrio Mopatis in the Free City of Pentos. During this time, Daenerys lived in constant fear of Viserys, who hit her when his temper was risen (in his words, whenever she "woke the dragon"). Living under Viserys's domination left her meek and malleable.
Viserys insists on Daenerys's marriage to Drogo.
Over a year after Illyrio welcomed the Targaryens into his home, Daenerys is betrothed to marry Khal Drogo of the Dothraki. As Viserys presents her with a wedding gown gifted by the magister, he strips her naked and fondles her under the pretext of examining how she has grown. After he leaves, Daenerys enters a bath that her servant warns her is too hot, but it does not affect her.
A short time later, Drogo arrives at Illyrio's manse. After taking a brief look at Daenerys, Drogo rides away without dismounting his horse. Viserys is concerned, but Illyrio assures him that if he did not approve of Daenerys, they would have known. After their departure, Illyrio and Viserys discuss the quest to sail back to Westeros, and Viserys inquires when the wedding will take place. Daenerys is not pleased with the arrangement and blurts out that she does not want to marry Drogo. Viserys insists that Daenerys will marry him, because, in return, Drogo will give Viserys the army he needs to retake their father's throne from Robert Baratheon. Viserys adds that he would let his sister be raped by all forty thousand of Drogo's men and their horses if it meant getting his throne back.
At the wedding, she accepts a variety of gifts. From Illyrio, she receives three dragon eggs from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai. The magister tells her that they have been turned to stone by the passage of time. Ser Jorah Mormont, a knight of Westeros, brings books about the Seven Kingdoms and offers Viserys his service. She is given a white mare by Drogo. Daenerys says the mare is beautiful and wants to thank Drogo, asking Jorah what the Dothraki word for 'thank you' is. Jorah tells her that there is no such word in their language. On their wedding night, Drogo forcefully takes the tearful Daenerys's virginity.
Daenerys moves west with Drogo's khalasar.
While traveling to Vaes Dothrak, Jorah notices that Daenerys is struggling to cope with Drogo's sexual appetites, giving her dried horse meat to eat in order to keep her strength, telling her of the Dothraki ghost grass theory and telling her that her marriage will get easier. Later, as Drogo has violent loveless sex with Daenerys, her attention becomes fixated on her gift from Illyrio. Becoming increasingly curious with the dragon eggs, Daenerys asks her handmaidens if they have ever heard of dragons surviving in the east.
Doreah teaches Daenerys.
They reply no, but Doreah, a former prostitute from Lys, tells her an old story about how there used to be two moons in the sky. One wandered too close to the sun and cracked like an egg, spilling out thousands of dragons into the world. Daenerys's Dothraki handmaidens Irri and Jhiqui dismiss the story, saying that the moon is a goddess, wife to the sun. Daenerys seeks advice from Doreah, trained in the pleasure houses of Lys, on how to best please her husband. Doreah teaches Daenerys how to use her sexuality to influence Drogo and win the status of an equal in his eyes. Irri teaches Daenerys to speak the Dothraki language.[citation needed]
Daenerys leads her khalasar across the Dothraki sea.
While traveling further eastward, Daenerys commands the khalasar to halt, and wanders into a glade. Viserys, enraged at the idea of being commanded by his sister, then attempts to renew his control over her, but Rakharo defends her from his attempts at violence, stating (through Irri's translation) that he should take an ear from him to teach respect. At first, she begs her men to spare him, but at an encouraging stare from Ser Jorah, she grows confident and orders them to spare Viserys, although he is shamed by being forced to walk. Daenerys discovers that she is pregnant with Drogo's child. She assuredly predicts that she will have a son, to Drogo's approval. The pregnancy buoys the love between them.
Arriving at Vaes Dothrak, Daenerys asks Jorah if he thinks the Dothraki could retake the Seven Kingdoms for her house. Mormont points out the difficulties of persuading them to cross the Narrow Sea, but believes success would be possible if that could be accomplished and if King Robert was foolish enough to meet them in open battle. He says that if their opponents retreated behind stone walls, the Dothraki would not be able to root them out. They move to discuss Jorah's background, and he admits to selling poachers on his land as slaves to raise money for his expensive wife. When Daenerys asks him where his wife is, Jorah replies that she is with another man in another place.
Daenerys invites Viserys to dinner, and provides fresh clothing in the Dothraki fashion for him. Viserys reacts angrily at being dressed in the "rags of savages" and strikes Daenerys. However, for the first time in her life, Daenerys fights back, hitting Viserys across the face with a heavy gold belt. As her astounded brother gawps at her, Daenerys furiously reminds him of her position as Drogo's wife and the mother of his child, finishing with a threatening promise that if Viserys raises a hand to her again, she will have both of his hands cut off.
Unbeknownst to Daenerys, Jorah sends word of her pregnancy to the spymaster Varys in King's Landing, where King Robert orders her assassination.
Daenerys studies one of her dragon eggs.
Daenerys studies her dragon eggs. Despite Illyrio's claim that they are now only stone, she ponders if they might be hatched by extreme heat, and places an egg on a brazier. Nothing happens, to her disappointment. As she removes the egg from the brazier, Irri enters her tent and hurriedly takes the egg so as to not let Daenerys burn her hands, but while Irri does suffer burns, Daenerys is completely unharmed.
Daenerys eats the heart of a stallion.
Daenerys eats the raw heart of a stallion before the eyes of the Dosh Khaleen, the Dothraki wise women, and names her unborn son Rhaego in honor of her late brother Rhaegar. The Dothraki crones prophesy that Daenerys's son will be the Stallion Who Mounts the World, the "khal of khals" who will unite the Dothraki into a single horde that will overrun all the lands of the world.
Viserys is overcome with jealousy that Daenerys has won the love of the Dothraki. When he attempts to steal her dragon eggs to buy his own army, Jorah stops him, prompting Viserys to taunt Jorah with what he perceives as Jorah's intentions toward his sister. Later, Viserys arrives drunk at the feast and draws his sword, demanding that Khal Drogo pay the agreed price for Daenerys by providing troops for the invasion of Westeros; he wants his crown or he will take Daenerys back. When he threatens Daenerys and her unborn child, Drogo executes Viserys by pouring molten gold over his head, "a crown for a king." Unphased, Daenerys notes that Viserys was not a true dragon, as fire cannot kill a dragon.
Daenerys tries to convince Drogo to take the Iron Throne.
Daenerys tries to convince Drogo to invade so their son might claim the Iron Throne, but the Dothraki do not trust ships and water their horses cannot drink. Now that Viserys is dead, Drogo does not feel inclined to honor the bargain. A wineseller attempts to poison Daenerys to fulfill Robert's orders. She is rescued by Jorah, who initially intends to drink the wine to prove a point, but then offers it knowingly to the wine-seller himself, and Rakharo. Following the assassination attempt, Drogo reverses his decision and swears that he will lead his forces across the Narrow Sea and seize the Seven Kingdoms in blood and fire.
To raise funds to hire the ships necessary for this endeavor, Drogo leads his khalasar into the lands of Lhazar, the 'lamb-men'. They seize loot and slaves that they can sell. Daenerys is appalled at how the Dothraki treat their prisoners, particularly the women, and wins them better treatment. One of Drogo's riders, Mago, objects and challenges Drogo to combat. Drogo easily slays him but sustains a chest wound. One of the women Daenerys has saved, Mirri Maz Duur, tends to the injury.
Daenerys orders Mirri to be brought to her after Drogo's fall.
The khalasar marches southwards to the edge of a great wasteland, but Drogo's wound festers, and he falls from his horse, a grave sign of weakness amongst the Dothraki. Duur continues to treat him but thinks his wound is fatal. Daenerys convinces her to employ magic to save Drogo's life, which the other Dothraki object to. However, Duur undergoes blood magic, stating that only life pays for life. She then begins chanting, ordering Daenerys out of the tent, as Mirri cuts Drogo's stallion's throat. Ser Jorah kills one of Drogo's bloodriders, Qotho when he tries to intervene. Daenerys is injured in the altercation and goes into labor. Jorah takes Daenerys to Duur for treatment, as the Dothraki midwives believe Daenerys to be cursed. The khalasar then separates due to Daenerys and Drogo's indisposition.
Daenerys discovers Drogo.
According to Duur, the child is stillborn and deformed, with leathery scaled skin, wings and a stomach filled with grave-worms. Duur saves Drogo's life, but leaves him in a vegetative state. Duur admits she did this deliberately in revenge for the sacking of her village. The ritual that saved Drogo drew its power from the death of Daenerys's son, causing her child's stillbirth and monstrous appearance. Daenerys is distraught.
Daenerys ends Drogo's misery.
Distressed by the lifelessness of Drogo, Daenerys tries to stir any sign of life in him but cannot. She is forced to accept he will never truly be alive again, remaining in a vegetative state, and must smother him with a pillow to end it. She constructs a funeral pyre for his body. She places her dragon eggs on it and ties Duur to the Drogo's funeral pyre, to be burned alive in revenge. Jorah believes that she means to die and tries to persuade her not to.
Daenerys with one of her newly-hatched dragons.
Daenerys gives a speech to those of her khalasar who are left. She tells them that they are free to go, but if they stay with her she will lead them to a great destiny, then she steps into the blaze. The following morning it is revealed that she has survived, and three newly-hatched dragons are clinging to her body, the first three dragons in the world in a century and a half. Jorah and the remaining Dothraki fall to their knees, proclaiming Daenerys their queen and leader.
Daenerys leads the remnants of her khalasar across the Red Waste, hoping to find shelter in the far lands of the east. She tries to feed her newborn dragons, but they refuse the raw meat she offers. She regards the dragons as her sons. The mare Drogo gave her as a wedding gift dies of exhaustion and Daenerys decides to send her three bloodriders, Rakharo, Aggo and Kovarro, with their remaining horses to explore in three separate directions, knowing that they are her last hope. She then stares at a red comet in the sky above (elsewhere, at Winterfell, Osha believes this comet is, in fact, an omen for the dragons owned by Daenerys).
Daenerys awaits for her blood-riders in the Red Waste.
Daenerys and her khalasar lie exhausted in the heat, their water dwindling as they wait for the return of her blood-riders. Rakharo's horse returns riderless and Ser Jorah Mormont discovers his head and severed braid in its saddlebag. He surmises that Rakharo was caught and killed by a rival khalasar. Irri is devastated by the death and believes the mutilation will prevent Rakharo from entering the Night Lands, the Dothraki land of the dead. Daenerys promises to hold a funeral for Rakharo and burn his body, allowing him to join his ancestors in the Night Lands.
Aggo's fate is unknown, but Kovarro returns with an invitation from the great city of Qarth. Daenerys leads her people there, and is disappointed at the lukewarm reception she receives. She is denied entry by the ruling council, the Thirteen, unless she shows them her dragons, which she refuses to do. When it seems she will be turned away, the Qartheen dignitary Xaro Xhoan Daxos vouches for her and her people, against the order of the Spice King.
Daenerys witnesses the tricks of Pyat Pree.
Daenerys and her surviving people are made guests in Xaro's lavish home. She begins to teach her dragons to cook and eat their own meat, and slowly begin breathing fire on command. She suggests to Doreah that she use her skill as a lover to find out more about Xaro, who happily agrees. Their host holds a reception for Daenerys and she is introduced to Pyat Pree of the Warlocks of Qarth. He demonstrates his magic by replicating himself and invites her to visit his order at the House of the Undying.
Xaro suggests that Jorah has feelings for Daenerys, but she denies this. Xaro shows Daenerys the Valyrian stone vault that guards his fortune and offers to fund her return to Westeros in exchange for her hand in marriage. He relays news of the death of King Robert Baratheon. Daenerys seeks the council of Jorah. She is eager to seize the opportunity, but he counsels against entering Xaro's debt. He reveals the depth of his feeling for her and his hope for the ruler that she will become. She agrees to take the harder path that he suggests but does not acknowledge his affection.
Later, Daenerys tries to negotiate with the Spice King for ships to return to Westeros. However, he considers it to be too risky an investment – considering that she has no army and has no open supporters in Westeros – and she receives nothing. She states that she will take what is hers, but the Spice King remarks she will have to do it without his ships.
Daenerys returns to find her khalasar slain.
Daenerys unsuccessfully appeals to more of the merchant nobles of Qarth to lend her ships. After the meeting, she returns to Xaro's home, to find that it has been attacked; half of her men have been brutally murdered, Irri is dead, and Doreah and the dragons are missing. Unbeknown to her, Doreah has taken her dragons to the House of the Undying, due to an alliance with Xaro and Pyat Pree.
Daenerys is left terrified by Pyat Pree.
Xaro hosts a council of the Thirteen so Daenerys can appeal to them for aid. During the meeting, Pyat Pree reveals that he was responsible and Xaro announces his intention to seize control of the city, as the new King of Qarth. The warlock uses his magic, creating thirteen duplicates to murder the rest of the Thirteen. Daenerys flees, but Pyat Pree appears to them, only to be stabbed through the back by Jorah. The stabbed Pyat is revealed to be another one of the duplicates. He repeats his invitation to Daenerys, telling her that her children are at the House of the Undying.
They take refuge in a disused courtyard, where Jorah advises Daenerys to leave her dragons and flee Qarth, as he has recently booked passage to Astapor. She insists on attempting to reclaim them and asks Jorah to lead her to the House of the Undying, without knowing what lies in wait.
Daenerys experiences a vision of her deceased husband and stillborn-son.
Daenerys arrives at House of the Undying and is magically separated from Jorah and Kovarro. She finds herself in an empty circular room with many doors. She chooses one and opens it. She is presented with tempting visions. First the snowy, ruined throne room of King's Landing where she turns away from the Iron Throne. She then walks through the gates of the Wall surrounded by more snow, and into Drogo's tent. She finds Drogo and what would have been her infant son Rhaego. They talk about whose dream they are in, and Daenerys silently leaves after touching Rhaego's hair. She returns to the room with many doors and finds her dragons chained to a pedestal in front of her. Pyat Pree appears and explains that she and her brood are the sources of his restored magic. Daenerys is also chained by Pyat's magic. However, the young queen is unconcerned and simply regards Pree with a cool, almost lazy gaze. She calmly utters a single word: "Dracarys"; after a couple of tries, all three dragons unleash their fiery breath, and Pyat Pree is incinerated.
Daenerys and her dragons use fire to kill and escape Pyat.
Daenerys knows that Xaro has betrayed her. She returns to his palace to confront him and finds Doreah in bed with him. She takes his key and uses it to open his Valyrian stone vault. She is surprised when it is empty but observes that this proves something can easily come from nothing. On her orders, Doreah and Xaro are locked into the empty vault to die, their pleas cut off by the closing door. Daenerys salvages enough from Xaro's household to buy a ship. On Jorah's orders, the Dothraki seize Xaro's gold and jewels while Daenerys triumphantly watches with her three dragons.
Dany tends to Drogon, now the size of a small dog.
Following their journey from Qarth, Daenerys's ship, Balerion, arrives at the city of Astapor in Slaver's Bay. By then, Daenerys's dragons had grown to the size of small dogs. While these dragons were now capable of hunting fish for themselves, they are still not large enough to be used as weapons of war to invade Westeros. Thus, Daenerys needs an army. While the Unsullied, the elite warrior-eunuchs produced in Astapor, are regarded as some of the finest soldiers in the world, Daenerys knows that their being slave-soldiers would become problematic in Westeros, where slavery is outlawed. However, Jorah convinces Daenerys that she has no choice but to settle for this solution since she has no other means of acquiring an army. While Daenerys considers expanding her tiny Dothraki khalasar, most of whom have become seasick since the Dothraki have never traveled on ships before, Jorah explains that the Dothraki would only join her if she were strong.
Upon arriving in Astapor, Daenerys is given a tour of the Unsullied barracks by the Unsullied's owner, Kraznys mo Nakloz, with his slave girl Missandei translating his Low Valyrian into the Common Tongue of Westeros for Daenerys. Since Kraznys does not know that Daenerys understands Valyrian, he frequently insults her.
Daenerys is told of the Unsullied regime.
Throughout the tour, Kraznys explains that the Unsullied were trained for battle from the age of five and that only one in four recruits survived the training. He also demonstrates that the Unsullied do not fear pain or death by slicing off the nipple of one soldier, much to Daenerys's disgust. This soldier not only shows no sign of pain but even thanks his slave master for the opportunity to serve him. Daenerys also learns that the Unsullied are trained not to show mercy or weakness by killing a newborn slave child in front of its mother at the end of their training. While Daenerys is outraged by this, she still asks Kraznys how many Unsullied are available. She is told that there are eight thousand soldiers for sale and that she has until the next day to make a decision.
En route back to their ship, Jorah recommends that Daenerys purchase the Unsullied, arguing that under her command, these slave soldiers will have a far better quality of life serving her than they would under Kraznys and his ilk. Daenerys is distracted by a playing child who follows her and Jorah. However, neither of them noticed a hooded man, armed with a dagger, following them. The child offers Daenerys a gift, a wooden ball, gesturing for her to open it.
Barristan swears fealty to Daenerys.
As she does, the hooded stranger knocks it out of her hand. In response, Jorah grabs the stranger, and in their struggle knock Daenerys to the ground. The ball then cracks in half, releasing a manticore. Before the creature can harm Daenerys with its lethal sting, the stranger, revealing himself to be Ser Barristan Selmy, kills it with his dagger. Meanwhile, the child hisses in a reptilian manner and uses magic to escape. Ser Barristan quickly identifies himself as one of her father's Kingsguard and begs her forgiveness for failing House Targaryen during Robert's Rebellion. In return for his wrongs, he offers to serve in her Queensguard, which she accepts.
Dany offers water to a dying slave.
The next day, Daenerys, accompanied by Jorah and Barristan, walks along a sea wall known as the "Walk of Punishment." Here, any slave who shows insubordination is strapped to a cross and left to die out in public, as a warning to all other slaves. When Daenerys asks for water to give to a condemned man, Jorah reminds her that this man has been sentenced to death. Nonetheless, Daenerys offers condemned man water, but he refuses to drink, saying that he just wants to die. Jorah tells her that if she wants to win the Iron Throne, she must take it, "That will mean blood on your hands before the thing is done," but Daenerys responds, "The blood of my enemies. Not the blood of innocents."
Later, Daenerys continues her negotiations with Kraznys over her planned purchase of the Unsullied. During the meeting, Daenerys announces that she would take all 8,000 Unsullied soldiers, including those in training. Kraznys initially dismisses her offer and instead offers to sell her one hundred soldiers. Daenerys then offers to sell him one of her dragons.
In the end, Daenerys reaches an agreement with Kraznys to sell her biggest dragon, Drogon, for all of the Unsullied soldiers. Jorah and Selmy object to this deal on the grounds that her dragons are key to winning the Iron Throne. However, Daenerys appears to brush away their concerns and accepts the transaction, and also takes Missandei as a token of faith. Upon leaving the meeting, she scolds Jorah and Selmy for criticizing her decision in public.
Daenerys also asks Missandei for her name and whether she has any living family, but Missandei responds that she does not. Daenerys warns her that she was heading to war, she may be killed and fall sick and die. In response, Missandei recites the Valyrian aphorism: "Valar morghulis," which translated into the Common Tongue as "all men must die." Daenerys then realizes that Missandei actually knows High Valyrian, and also adds that "we are not men."
On the day of the exchange, the slave masters and Kraznys, along with the 8,000 Unsullied warriors, meet with Daenerys to complete the deal. Daenerys hands the chained Drogon to Kraznys, who is hostile towards his slave master. Kraznys then gives her the golden whip, the symbol of ownership over the Unsullied. After finalizing the transaction, Daenerys tests her new powers by ordering the Unsullied, in Valyrian, to march forward and then halt. This shocks everyone including Jorah and Barristan, who did not know that she spoke Valyrian.
Daenerys takes command of the Unsullied.
Kraznys then complains that Drogon did not obey his command, to which Daenerys angrily retorts Drogon does not obey him because he is not a slave; Kraznys is both stunned to learn she speaks fluent Valyrian and horrified to realize Daenerys understood his derogatory comments and insults about her the whole time, merely feigning ignorance to lull the Astapori into a false sense of security. She then orders the Unsullied to kill all the slave masters and free all the slaves in Astapor, but to hurt no innocent people. When a panicking Kraznys desperately shouts for someone to kill her, Daenerys orders Drogon to burn Kraznys alive.
Daenerys marches forward with her army and Dragons.
With the Unsullied under her command, Daenerys sacks Astapor with little resistance. Once it is done, she addresses all of her Unsullied warriors and tells them they are now free. She also gives them the option of leaving unharmed or fighting under her command as free men. At first, the Unsullied remain quiet, not knowing what to do with their newfound freedom. however, one Unsullied soldier begins to beat his spear against the ground, signifying his allegiance to her. The rest of the Unsullied follow suit shortly thereafter. Now in command of an army of free men, Daenerys marches forward with her new army while her dragons fly overhead and roar triumphantly.
Daenerys rallies her Unsullied.
During their journey to Yunkai, the next great city of Slaver's Bay, Daenerys orders the Unsullied to elect a commander from their own ranks. The officers ultimately choose Grey Worm who, like all Unsullied, was given the name of a type of vermin. When Daenerys instructs the Unsullied to go back to their own names or pick new ones they like, Grey Worm elects to keep his, as it was the name he had when Daenerys Stormborn set him free.
While Daenerys and Barristan are confident that they can conquer Yunkai since that city only bred sex slaves, Jorah expresses his concerns that the city's defenders will not fight them on the battlefield but will rather strengthen their position behind the walls and utilize guerrilla tactics against her army. He also views the Yunkai campaign as a distraction from their main goal of taking Westeros. Daenerys is, however, adamant on freeing the slaves of Yunkai, who number in the hundreds of thousands.
She orders Grey Worm to send a messenger to the city, and inform Yunkai's slaver rulers that they must either surrender or suffer the same fate as Astapor. Daenerys holds an audience with the Yunkish herald, Razdal mo Eraz, who is one of the ruling "Wise Masters" of Yunkai. Razdal attempts to discourage Daenerys from attacking his city by claiming that numerous armies throughout history had tried and failed to conquer it. However, Daenerys is undaunted and comments that a hard-fought battle will give her Unsullied much-needed practice. Razdal then attempts to bribe her by providing her with the gold and ships needed to transport her army to Westeros. In exchange, Daenerys will have to leave Yunkai in peace.
Daenerys gives Razdal an ultimatum.
In response, Daenerys makes a counter-offer: she will spare the lives of Razdal and the slave-masters of Yunkai if every slave (men, women, and children) in the city were set free, and given as much food, clothing, and property as they could carry in payment for their services. She threatens to show no mercy if Yunkai rejects her offer. Razdal is offended by Daenerys's demands and threatens to use Yunkai's "powerful friends" to destroy her.
As a result of Razdal's actions, Daenerys's dragons make threatening gestures toward him. When Razdal protests that he had been promised safe conduct, Daenerys responds that her dragons made no such promise and they take offense to him threatening their mother. Razdal is also unable to reclaim the chests of gold he had brought with him. Following his departure, Daenerys orders her knights to find out more about Yunkai's "powerful friends" before she decided to attack the city.
They eventually discover that these "powerful friends" are the Second Sons, a professional mercenary company. While there are only 2,000 of them, the Second Sons are armored and mounted, enough to cause trouble for the Unsullied. Daenerys tells Barristan to organize a meeting with the Second Sons' captains, saying that men who fight for gold "can't afford to lose to a girl."
Dany meets with the Second Sons.
Daenerys meets with the Captains Mero, a Braavosi who is also known as the Titan's Bastard, and Prendahl na Ghezn, a Ghiscari, and Prendahl's underling Daario Naharis. During the proceedings, Mero insults Daenerys by likening her to a whore and touches Missandei inappropriately. Prendahl and Mero refuse Daenerys's offer of an alliance, pointing out they will not get their rewards until she reclaims the Iron Throne. In response, Daenerys replies that she had no army a fortnight ago and that she had no dragons a year ago. Daenerys gives them two days to make up their mind and sends them away with the barrel of wine which Mero had departed.
After the Second Sons depart, Daenerys instructs Barristan to kill Mero in the event that she had to fight with them. Barristan replies that he would be glad to do so. Later that night, Daenerys takes a bath and is surprised to learn that Missandei speaks nineteen languages. In response, Missandei comments that this shouldn't be that odd since it only took Daenerys a year to gain a reasonable grasp of Dothraki. The khaleesi bristles at the idea she speaks only reasonable Dothraki and switches to the language to teach Missandei a lesson, only to have her pronunciation corrected. Suddenly, an Unsullied enters and holds a knife to Missandei's throat, advising the women not to scream. He removes his helmet, revealing himself as Daario. He confesses that his captains want to kill Daenerys, but he disagreed with them. Instead, he beheaded them and shows their severed heads to Daenerys. Shortly after, Daario swears fealty to Daenerys. Thus, Daenerys gains a new ally in her conquest.
For their assault on Yunkai, the new captain Daario suggested attacking the city through its lightly defended back gate. Their plan was to infiltrate the city and open the main gates for the rest of the army to invade. While Ser Jorah was skeptical of the plan, Daenerys and Grey Worm were willing to trust Daario. During the war meeting, Daario attempted to flirt with her. When the battle began, Ser Barristan remained behind to guard Daenerys, fulfilling his duty as a Queensguard. During that night, Jorah, Daario, and Grey Worm infiltrated the city and fought their way through the slave soldiers guarding the city. Within a few hours, Targaryen forces had captured Yunkai.
People of Yunkai celebrate Daenerys as Mhysa.
The following morning, Daenerys addressed the city's slaves with Missandei serving as her translator. During her speech, Daenerys told the slaves that it was their own choice to reach for their freedom. As a result, the liberated slaves revered Daenerys as their "mhysa", which translated as "mother" from the Old Ghiscari language. Daenerys mingled with the former slaves who regarded her as a "glimmer of hope" in an increasingly dark world.
Drogon snarls at Daenerys.
Daenerys sits near the sea with her three dragons, each one about the size of a small horse. Daenerys strokes Drogon's head, while Rhaegal and Viserion fight over a dead lamb and Drogon joins the fight. As Daenerys tries to calm him down, Drogon, without warning, snaps at her with a hiss as a warning to not interfere. He then roars and goes to contest the kill. Drogon snarls a warning at his mother. This act, that her own children would threaten her, and that they are outgrowing her influence and ability to control them, leaves Daenerys visibly shaken.
Daenerys approaches the gambling commanders.
Daenerys returns to her Unsullied army to resume the march to Meereen. She notices Grey Worm and Daario Naharis are absent and sets out to find them after being told they are "gambling." Daario explains they are deciding on which of them will ride up front with her in the vanguard. Frustrated, Daenerys states that the honor goes to Jorah and Barristan as they did not keep her waiting all morning. She orders the two men to ride at the back with the livestock. She also adds that the last man holding his sword shall find a new queen to fight for. Both Daario and Grey Worm instantly drop their swords.
On the road to Meereen, Daenerys speaks with Missandei, who tells her queen that Meereen would be wise to fear her approach. Daario meets them on the cliffside, and Daenerys expresses her annoyance when he shows her flowers he has picked. He reveals that the flowers represent a portrait of the landscape, and serve various purposes, chiefly that knowing her surroundings is important to her strategy.
Daenerys finds a crucified slave on the road to Meereen.
The marching army halts and Daenerys goes to the forefront, discovering a slave child nailed to a cross. The child is dead, her hand pointing the way to Meereen, and Jorah tells Daenerys there is one for each mile to the last of the great slave cities, 163 in total. Ser Barristan offers to have outriders go ahead and bury them, but Daenerys refuses, ordering that each of them is buried, and their collars removed, but not before she has looked upon each and every face.
Daario Naharis offers himself as Dany's champion.
Daenerys and her army eventually arrive at the gates of Meereen as she begins her siege. She is faced with a champions' duel where a riding knight of Meereen challenges her to choose a champion that will fight for her. Daario Naharis, commander of the Second Sons and the most expendable member of Daenerys's entourage, volunteers to be her champion. Once Naharis quickly dispatches the Meereen champion, Daenerys begins her siege of the city by speaking to the gathered slaves and then catapulting the broken chains of those she has freed across the city walls, demonstrating her previous successes. As the slaves examine the broken chains, the Great Masters looks on, perhaps in fear.
She sends her Unsullied, led by Grey Worm, to sneak into Meereen and start a slave revolt inside the city. The plan is successful, the slaves rise up against their masters, kill some of them and open the gates to Daenerys. She enters the city as a liberator and the freedmen of Meereen celebrate her arrival by shouting "Mhysa" and throwing their old slaves' collars at her feet. She then has 163 Great Masters killed similarly to how they had murdered the slave children on the road to Meereen, and despite Ser Barristan's council to answer their injustice with mercy, she claims she is "answering injustice with justice." The Great Harpy of Meereen at the apex of the Great Pyramid is covered with a great Targaryen banner, as Daenerys looks down on the newly liberated city.
Daenerys makes her decision to stay and rule in Meereen.
As a meeting with her advisers and commanders of her forces is held in the highest quarters of the Great Pyramid, she is informed that the Second Sons had taken the Meereenese navy, composed of 93 ships. Although she did not command Daario to take them, she asks if it is enough to take her army to King's Landing. Jorah remarks that even though she might be able to take King's Landing, she wouldn't be able to hold all the Seven Kingdoms. He also tells her that in Yunkai, the Wise Masters re-established slavery and took control of the city, swearing to take revenge against Daenerys. In Astapor, the council she has left behind to rule has been overthrown by a butcher named Cleon, who named himself "His Imperial Majesty." Daenerys commands everyone except Ser Jorah to leave her, and she questions her ability to rule the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros if she can't even pacify the three cities of Slaver's Bay. Thus she decides to stay in Meereen to gather more knowledge and experience, doing what queens do - rule.
Daenerys sets up the time to hear petitions from her new subjects. Among the first is a goatherd whose flock were roasted by her dragons; Daenerys orders him paid three times their value. Next is Hizdahr zo Loraq, who asks to be allowed to bury his father, one of the 163 Great Masters Daenerys ordered crucified. Daenerys is swayed by Hizdahr's arguments (aided by guilt upon realizing that the elder zo Loraq opposed the crucifixion of the slaves in the first place) and allows the burial. Missandei informs her that there are 200 more supplicants.
Some weeks later, Daenerys is irritated to discover Daario in her private quarters. The mercenary tries to give her flowers, but the queen demands to know what he wants. Daario asks to be allowed to indulge in his only two talents: killing men and loving women. Daenerys counters that the Second Sons are assigned to patrol Meereen and keep the peace, and there are plenty of women in the city that Daario can pursue. Daario says that police work doesn't do the trick and that the only woman he wants isn't interested.
Nonetheless, he confirms that he is sworn to her and that he will continue boring patrol work if that is what the queen wants, and only asks that she occasionally allow him to do what he is actually good at. In response, Daenerys orders him to take off his clothes.
The following morning, as Daario leaves, Jorah enters. Jorah observes that he is earlier than most, but later than others. Daenerys brushes off his disapproval and says that she is sending the Second Sons to retake Yunkai. To ensure that slavery is truly dead in that city, Daario is under orders to kill every Wise Master the Second Sons encounter. Jorah protests, warning her that good and evil exists on both sides of every conflict, and that he wouldn't be advising her today if Eddard Stark had done to him what she is about to go to the Wise Masters. After considering this, Daenerys instructs Jorah to tell Daario that she has changed her mind: his orders are now to accompany Hizdahr to Yunkai so that he can give the Wise Masters a choice: they can live in her new world, or die in their old one. As Jorah leaves, Daenerys says to tell Daario that it was Jorah who changed her mind.
Daenerys is in her chambers with Missandei. The two are talking about Grey Worm and how Missandei caught him gazing while she was bathing naked downstream. Daenerys asks whether Missandei thinks he was spying on her. She says no, and Daenerys mentions that the Dothraki have no taboos against nudity or public love-making. Of course, Missandei is not Dothraki, but she says it doesn't matter, as Grey Worm isn't interested in her - none of the Unsullied desire women. Missandei says he was interested, surprisingly to both of them. Daenerys inquires whether, when a slave is castrated, the masters take "all of it" - both the "pillar" and the "stones." Missandei says she doesn't know, to which Daenerys asks if she's ever wondered. Thoughtful, Missandei confirms that she has. Later on, Ser Barristan finds out that Jorah was spying on Daenerys.
Daenerys banishes Jorah from her service.
Jorah enters the throne room in Meereen. In an audience before her, a seething Daenerys demands an explanation, and Jorah says it is a plot by Tywin Lannister to divide them. Daenerys counters that the pardon was signed the year they met. Asking him whether he claims the pardon was forged, Jorah admits that it was not. He soon confesses to giving Varys information on Daenerys's activities in Essos. Daenerys angrily says that Jorah revealing her pregnancy by Khal Drogo to them led to her near-poisoning at the hands of a wine merchant. Jorah protests that his actions stopped her from being poisoned, but Daenerys retorts this was only because he knew it might be coming. Jorah begs for her forgiveness, but Daenerys rebuffs him, saying he betrayed her, selling her secrets to the man she holds responsible for the death of her family. She spares his life, however, and gives him a day to leave Meereen. She warns that if he is seen in the city after that, his head will be thrown into Slaver's Bay. Jorah is last seen leaving Meereen on a horse.
Daenerys sits in her throne room where she is receiving another day's supplicants. An old man named Fennesz approaches the throne. Fennesz explains that he was not one of the slaves who toiled away at manual labor, but a well-educated teacher and servant to Master Mighdal, who employed him as a teacher for his own children. He tells Daenerys that Master Mighdal's seven-year-old daughter Calla admires Daenerys, having learned of the Targaryen dynasty through Fennesz's teachings. As a servant of Master Mighdal, Fennesz was well-treated and even well-respected in the household, but when Daenerys forcibly freed all of the slaves in the city she did not understand the full-scale complications of suddenly having to care for so many people. Fennesz originally stayed in Master Mighdal's house after she took the city. Mighdal's children begged him to stay, but Mighdal and Fennesz agreed that he must leave rather than face reprisals, forcing Fennesz to become homeless. Daenerys insists that she had established mess halls to feed the freed slaves and barracks to house them. Fennesz says that he has visited these refugee centers and they are not very safe: the young prey on the old, harassing and robbing them. Daenerys insists that her Unsullied will restore order, but Fennesz points out that even assuming that they are able to ensure his physical safety, he has lost his livelihood and his purpose and is too old to start anew. Therefore, he has come to Daenerys to beg her permission to sell himself back to Mighdal. She is shocked that he would want to be owned as a slave again, as a man might own a goat or a chair.
Daenerys finds difficulty in pleasing her subjects.
He implores her that the young who can adapt rejoice in her new world, but for those too old to change, there is only fear and squalor. Nor, he says, is he alone: there are many supplicants waiting outside lining up to make similar requests. Daenerys is crestfallen and says she did not liberate the slaves of Meereen only to preside over the very injustice she sought to destroy, but surprisingly relents and admits that freedom means making one's own choices. Therefore she allowed Fennesz to enter into a labor contract with Mighdal, but lasting no more than one year. He earnestly thanks her and leaves. The next supplicant then enters, a shepherd carrying a bundle in his arms. The shepherd timidly approaches and states that he is unable to speak in the common tongue and requires Missandei to translate. Distraught, he tells Daenerys that the "winged shadow" came, placing the bundle on the ground and opening it to reveal charred bones - of a human child. Daenerys's largest dragon, the pitch-black Drogon, has roasted the man's three-year-old daughter Zalla until this is all that was left of her.
Dany chains Rhaegal and Viserion following the disappearance of Drogon.
Horrified, Daenerys meets with Missandei and Grey Worm in private to discuss the details of Zalla's death and how to deal with the growing threat the dragons are posing to the people of Meereen. Grey Worm reports that Drogon was last seen flying over the Black Cliffs three days ago, but he can no longer be found. Realizing that she can no longer control her dragons, Daenerys tells them to head with her to the catacombs under the city. Later, she leads her remaining two dragons, Rhaegal and Viserion, into the catacombs, where they are distracted by sheep carcasses. As they are feeding, Daenerys personally locks huge iron collars around their necks, which are secured by heavy chains. She weeps as she does so, as it is symbolically reducing her remaining "children" to chained-up slaves themselves. Daenerys wordlessly leaves and closes the huge stone door to the catacombs behind her as her dragons grow distressed and pathetically call after her when they attempt to follow and realize they are chained in place.
Following the removal of the golden harpy from the top of the Great Pyramid and the subsequent murder of White Rat, Daenerys is furious. She orders that he be buried with full honors in the Temple of the Graces as a statement to the Sons of the Harpy, and orders that the Unsullied patrol the streets of Meereen. She later receives Hizdahr zo Loraq's report on the situation in Yunkai. Daenerys is pleased that the Wise Masters will share their rule with the former slaves but refuses to support Hizdahr's concession of allowing the fighting pits to reopen.
Daenerys attempts to comfort Viserion and Rhaegal.
Later that night, Daario tries to convince her to reconsider, explaining that he was once a slave who earned his freedom in the pits. The skills he learned ultimately led him to the Second Sons and thence to Daenerys. Upon learning that Drogon hasn't been seen in weeks, Daario muses on the possibilities of a dragon queen with no dragons. In response, Daenerys visits Rhaegal and Viserion in the catacombs where she imprisoned them. To her horror, they try to attack upon hearing her voice and she is forced to flee.
Daenerys leads a council meeting in the pyramid debating the fate of a Son of the Harpy that Daario and Grey Worm found. Barristan pleads that the man deserves a fair trial while the freed Meereenese slave, Mossador, insists Daenerys put the man to death.
Barristan tells Daenerys about her father.
Daenerys thanks her advisors for their council and dismisses them, but Barristan asks her for a word in private about her father, the "Mad King." Daenerys initially scoffs at Barristan for reminding her of what she considers her enemies' lies. However, Barristan also reminds Daenerys of his past service in her father's Kingsguard and insists that her enemies did not lie. He tells Daenerys about how her father set entire towns and castles ablaze, murdered sons in front of their fathers, and burned men alive with wildfire, laughing as they screamed. All of this led to a rebellion that killed every Targaryen save for her and Viserys. Daenerys is visibly shocked but assures Barristan that she is not like her father. Barristan agrees, but he still warns her that the Mad King gave his enemies the justice he thought they deserved, and each time it made him feel powerful and right until the very end. Daenerys promises not to have the Son of the Harpy executed without a fair trial.
Daenerys is escorted away from the riots by the Unsullied.
Later, Mossador goes against Daenerys's order and executes the man, angering Daenerys. She decides to sentence Mossador to death, stating that killing the Son of the Harpy broke the law. A crowd gathers to witness Mossador's execution and Daenerys tells the crowd that when she conquered Meereen she promised freedom and justice, but one cannot exist without the other. Daenerys is escorted away by the Unsullied when riots break out between the freedmen and the masters.
Dany is reunited with Drogon.
Daenerys retreats to her pyramid where she wants to spend time alone. She steps out onto her balcony and finds Drogon atop the Great Pyramid. Daenerys is happy to see him and tries reaching out for him, which she hadn't done since the start of her reign over Meereen, but he flies away. Daenerys is left heartbroken as she gazes at Drogon from the distance.
Dany speaks with Ser Barristan about Rhaegar.
Daenerys looks down at the streets below from her royal apartment in the Great Pyramid. Ser Barristan arrives and shares a story of how he and Rhaegar used to leave the Red Keep and mingle with the common people on the streets. Daenerys then learns the truth that Rhaegar never loved killing as Viserys once told her before, but that he loved singing and was great at it. Barristan soon tells her that one time he and Rhaegar spent the money Rhaegar earned at a minstrel to get horribly drunk and Daenerys laughs. Daario arrives telling her that Hizdahr is in the throne room awaiting her. Daenerys asks Barristan if he’ll be joining them, but Daario assures her that he has her well protected, despite claiming she could easily defend herself against Hizdahr. Daenerys then gives Barristan the day off, cheerfully telling him to make some music in the city below. In the throne room, Daenerys hears Hizdahr plead again to reopen the fighting pits of Meereen, but she refuses. Hizdahr rationally argues that the fighting pits provide a great spectacle that has always been enjoyed by both the masters and slaves, and is one of the few things that can bring the city together. Daenerys does not interrupt him this time as he continues to offer his proposal.
Daenerys is devastated upon learning of Ser Barristan's untimely death at the hands of the Sons of the Harpy, having lost another one of her most trusted advisers, and grieves over his corpse in the throne room. Upon the suggestion of Daario, Daenerys decides to round up each of the leaders of Meereen's noble families, including Hizdahr zo Loraq.
Daenerys burns a Great Master.
Bringing the eight of them down to the catacombs where Viserion and Rhaegal reside, Daenerys, with the enforcement of the Unsullied, forces the leaders forwards towards the dragons until one of them is burned alive and then brutally torn apart. Drawn into Daenerys's debate between mercy and revenge, Missandei advises her queen to trust the decision that she alone sees. Taking this advice, Daenerys approaches Hizdahr in his cell, admitting her mistake of refusing to open the fighting pits. Daenerys, in order to secure her bondage with the noble people of Meereen, decides to wed herself to Hizdahr, although she makes it clear that she will be the one in control.
Later, while in bed with Daario, Daenerys reassures him that her marriage to Hizdahr is purely political in order to maintain peace. Daario hints at jealousy and asks if Daenerys would marry him instead, but Daenerys, who would like nothing less, is forced to refuse him.
Dany views the fighters training for Daznak's Pit.
To everyone's surprise, Daenerys and Hizdahr appear in one of the fighting pits to watch the opening of the games, though Daenerys is visibly uncomfortable at the violent butchery before her, and gets up to leave, she is convinced to stay by Hizdahr. While arguing with him, another fighter emerges into the pit and proceeded to overpower the other participants, knocking them down one by one using non-lethal means that caused Daenerys to become intrigued by this newcomer. When the fighting is over, the surviving fighter reveals himself as Jorah, but Daenerys, who still hasn't forgiven him, orders him taken away. However, Jorah shouts out that he has brought Daenerys a gift. Jorah's companion enters the arena and introduces himself to Daenerys as Tyrion Lannister.
Daenerys has both Tyrion and Jorah brought before her inside the Great Pyramid. Though she had doubts about the Lannister's claimed identity, she lets him try and talk her out of executing Jorah. On Tyrion's advice, she spares Jorah's life and banishes him from Meereen again (he counseled that she should not kill those devoted to her, but also that Jorah could not be present should she ever claim Westeros).
Daenerys asks Tyrion Lannister to be her adviser.
Later, over wine, Daenerys and Tyrion speak about their families and past. Daenerys is still thinking about executing Tyrion, mostly as revenge against the Lannisters for betraying her family, but decides not to when she sees Tyrion's indifference to death. Tyrion warns her that the noble families of Westeros are too busy fighting the game of thrones or exhausted to help her reclaim the Iron Throne, and suggests that she consolidate her power in Meereen and build a new kingdom for herself. Daenerys says she'll only stay in Meereen long enough to stabilize the situation and likens Westeros's game of thrones to a spinning wheel, with the Great Houses as spokes. Tyrion dismisses her idealism, noting that others have tried to stop the wheel, but Daenerys firmly declares that she intends to break the wheel, not just stop it. She then informs Tyrion that she will take him on as an advisor, but confiscates his wine – she needs him to communicate in complete sentences.
Attended by Tyrion Lannister, Missandei, Hizdahr zo Loraq, and Daario Naharis. Daenerys sits in the royal box at the Daznak's Pit and watches to crowd; they are silent. Hizdahr tells her to clap her hands, which she does, beginning the Great Games. She then notices Jorah in the array of fighters, who gives the traditional dedication to her and manages to be the last fighter standing. At this moment, Jorah suddenly hurls a spear at the royal box – embedding itself in a Son of the Harpy sneaking behind Daario. Suddenly, Sons of the Harpy reveal themselves on every level of the arena and begin slaughtering collaborating Masters and freedmen alike – Hizdahr included. Jorah and Daario evacuate Daenerys from the royal box, while Tyrion rescues Missandei. Finding the exits blocked, the group makes a stand in the center of the Pit with the remainder of the Unsullied defenders. Seeing they are hopelessly outnumbered, Daenerys takes Missandei's hand and closes her eyes, ready to face her death.
Daenerys climbs on Drogon.
At that moment, a draconic screech pierces the air, and Drogon descends upon the arena, flying out of a giant flame burst. Many of the Sons scatter in terror as Drogon bites and mercilessly burns the nearest ones to death. The Sons rally enough to attack Drogon with spears, which Daenerys hastily makes an effort to remove. Trying to get Drogon out of the Sons' range, Daenerys climbs atop his back and bids him to fly, becoming the first Targaryen dragonrider in over a century. The Sons of the Harpy temporarily routed, Daario, Jorah, Missandei and Tyrion look on in astonishment as Drogon, with Daenerys on his back, soars away.
Daenerys is surrounded by a khalasar.
Later, Daenerys finds herself far away from Meereen, atop an impressive hill in a sea of green grass. Drogon is still recovering from his wounds and is uninterested in flying back. Unfortunately, he's also not interested in finding them any food. Daenerys wanders away to find something for them but is shocked to see a trio of Dothraki bloodriders emerge. Within minutes, an entire khalasar has her surrounded. Understanding what might happen to her, she quickly removes a ring and drops it in the grass, determined to leave a trail.
Now a prisoner of the khalasar, Daenerys is brought before their leader, Khal Moro, enduring remarks about her appearance from her captors. Out of jealousy, Moro's wives suggest killing Daenerys, though he repeatedly ignores them. Daenerys reveals her identity, but Moro laughs off her titles, saying she is nothing more than his bed slave. Daenerys refuses, revealing herself as the widow of Khal Drogo. As it is forbidden for a khal to sleep with a widowed khaleesi, Moro has a change of heart, cuts her free and promises no one will touch her. A grateful Daenerys promises to reward him with more horses if she is returned to Meereen, but Moro informs her that she will be escorted to the Temple of the Dosh Khaleen in Vaes Dothrak, a home for other widowed khaleesi.
Daenerys is brought to the Temple of the Dosh Khaleen.
Daenerys eventually returns to Vaes Dothrak and arrives at the Temple of the Dosh Khaleen. Inside, the other widowed khaleesi strip her of her clothing and jewelry and give her traditional Dothraki clothing. She attempts to intimidate them with her name and titles, but their leader lectures her on how Daenerys believed Khal Drogo would conquer the world with her at his side, just as they all believed the same of their own husbands before they were slain. Daenerys is then informed that she had violated Dothraki law by not immediately joining the Dosh Khaleen after Drogo died, and her fate will be decided soon by the khali at the Khalar Vezhven.
The High Priestess of the Dosh Khaleen introduces Daenerys to the other khaleesi, some of whom hate her for not being of pure blood. During her time in captivity, Daenerys befriends a young khaleesi named Ornela, a Lhazareen girl taken from her village at the age of twelve. The High Priestess gives Daenerys permission to relieve herself outside but sends Ornela to escort her. The pair are accosted by Jorah and Daario, who have traveled to Vaes Dothrak to rescue her. She tells them to cancel their rescue plan and proposes a plan of her own.
Daenerys challenges the khali.
At the Khalar Vezhven, Daenerys tells the gathered khali that none of them are fit to lead the Dothraki. Daenerys declares that she will lead them herself. After a pause, Moro and the khali burst into laughter. Daenerys reminds them that her husband, in the same temple in which they all now sit, declared that he would lead a Dothraki army across the Narrow Sea to retake the Iron Throne for his khaleesi and that all the khali have done since the raid and plunder of villages in lieu of any meaningful conquest. Disgusted with her insolence, Moro declares that she will be raped by each of the khali, then by all of their bloodriders, and then, if she is still alive, by their horses.
Daenerys gazes at the bowing khalasar and Dosh Khaleen.
Daenerys's broad smile deepens at his threats and replies that they won't have to follow her because this is where they will die. She knocks over the braziers at the center of the temple, setting the entire building aflame. The khali desperately attempt to escape the rapidly spreading fire, only to find the temple's only door barred, the bodies of the two khaleen guarding it lying dead outside. Moro tries to confront Daenerys a final time, but she pushes the last brazier on him, completing the conflagration. As the flames climb higher, the Dosh Khaleen and khalasari gather in confusion. Eventually, the doors collapse and Daenerys emerges, naked and unburnt. Many of the assembled bows immediately, with the High Priestess and the rest of the Dosh Khaleen following. Jorah and Daario move to the front of the crowd and bow last.
The next day, Daenerys formally thanks Jorah for saving her life, but still remarks that he has been banished twice and returned both times, so she is left with a dilemma on what to do with him. She is shocked to learn he has greyscale, feeling responsible for his condition. After Jorah confesses his love to her and prepares to leave, Daenerys tells him to find a cure; that she will need him by her side when she sits on the Iron Throne.
On the road back to Meereen, Daenerys stops to outline her plan to Daario for when she returns to the city, asking how many ships would be needed to sail the Dothraki and Unsullied. Daario's estimated figure of a thousand troubles Daenerys, as no one owns a fleet that large. Though the sellsword believes she is a conqueror more than anything else, Daenerys states that she takes what is hers. The conversation ends when Daenerys senses something in the distance and rides ahead to investigate. A few moments later, she returns on the back of a fully-healed Drogon, declaring all of the khalasar as her bloodriders instead of selecting a select few. She then vows to lead them to conquer Westeros.
Daenerys returns to Meereen.
As Meereen is being besieged by a fleet of the Masters' ships, Daenerys finally returns to the city, arriving at the Great Pyramid's balcony on Drogon. She is originally mistaken to be a threat from above by Tyrion, Missandei and Grey Worm, but her identity is revealed when several Unsullied discover her on the balcony adjacent to the council room.
The following day, Daenerys and Tyrion discuss a plan to deal with the slaver fleet currently besieging the city. Daenerys declares her plans to "return their cities to the dirt" but Tyrion pleads for diplomacy, begging her not to become like her father.
Daenerys meets with the slavers.
Daenerys and her entourage then meet with the slave masters Razdal mo Eraz, Belicho Paenymion, and Yezzan zo Qaggaz; representing Yunkai, Volantis, and Astapor respectively. The masters discuss their terms of surrender, announcing they will allow Daenerys and Tyrion to leave the city, while Missandei and the Unsullied will be sold back into slavery, and the dragons will be slaughtered. Daenerys rejects their terms, informing them they aren't meeting for her surrender, but for theirs.
Dany rides Drogon while destroying the enemy fleet.
The Masters are bewildered by Daenerys's unwavering confidence until Drogon lands beside her. She mounts her dragon and the two take flight, while Rhaegal and Viserion break free from the catacombs of the great pyramid - all three dragons finally reunited. Daenerys then orders her dragons to burn the slave masters' ships; tilting the negotiating table in her favor. Meanwhile, Grey Worm executes Razdal and Belicho but spares Yezzan to spread tidings of her power. Daario leads the Daenerys's khalasar to slaughter the Sons of the Harpy; ending the threat of the slave masters and their Harpy allies.
Dany and Yara form an alliance.
Later, Daenerys and Tyrion meet with the ironborn Yara and Theon Greyjoy. Yara offers to provide one hundred ships to Daenerys if, in return, she helps them defeat their uncle Euron Greyjoy and recognizes the independence of the Iron Islands. Daenerys accepts Yara's offer of an alliance and observes that both of their fathers left the world worse than they found it, but Daenerys and Yara are going to leave it better than they found it. She demands that Yara recognize her claim to queenship of the Seven Kingdoms and tells her, "No more reaving, roving, raiding, or raping." Yara protests this is the ironborn's way of life, but Daenerys is firm. Yara reluctantly agrees to her terms, and the two Queens make a pact.
Daario reports to Daenerys that the fleet is nearly ready. He's eager to see how the Dothraki do on the open sea. Daenerys informs Daario he won't be joining them, which Daario interprets to mean that he will go on to seize Casterly Rock to cut off the Lannister retreat. Daenerys clarifies that Daario is to stay in Meereen with the Second Sons, to keep the peace until the city can safely choose its own ruler. Furthermore, she cannot bring her lover to Westeros, as marriage is still her most valuable bargaining chip when considering new alliances. Daario begs her to take him, pointing out that kings have mistresses, and queens should be no different, but Daenerys stands firm. Daario realizes that Tyrion convinced her to leave him, but admits that it is a good move politically. He muses that no woman can take her place, although Daenerys is sure he will have many more lovers. Daenerys assures him that she'll leave specific instructions for him to follow in governing the newly-renamed Bay of Dragons.
After Daario leaves, Daenerys goes to see Tyrion, who tries his best to console her. Daenerys thanks him, but admits that she's not upset about Daario: rather, she was frightened that she was able to easily dismiss someone who loves her unconditionally. Tyrion says that Daario wasn't the first man to love Daenerys, and won't be the last. Daenerys then turns the topic to Tyrion's rule of Meereen in her absence. He responds that he gave up on believing in himself or in anyone and anything else, but that he believes in her. Touched, Daenerys gives Tyrion a pin she had made for him: the brooch of the Hand of the Queen. Tyrion, struck with emotion, proceeds to kneel in front of her.
Daenerys sails for Westeros.
Some time later, Daenerys leads her armada to Westeros. With the Liberation of Slaver's Bay complete, Daenerys sails the Summer Sea, her three dragons: Drogon, Rhaegal, and Viserion fly over her assembled armada, composed of the horde of Dothraki, ironborn, Dornishmen, Reachmen, and Unsullied fleet of House Targaryen. Daenerys, clad in Targaryen black, stands on the deck of the flagship with Tyrion, Missandei, and Varys, looking ahead to either the gift of a new ally, or another massive war within House Targaryen for the Iron Throne.
Daenerys's arrival at her birthplace.
Daenerys arrives on Dragonstone for the first time since she was born, accompanied by Tyrion, Missandei, Varys, and Grey Worm. She wastes no time exploring the home of her ancestors, removing one of Stannis Baratheon's old banners in the process. After examining the Painted Table of Westeros, Daenerys asks her Hand when they can begin their conquest.
Later, watching the weather, members of her council comment on how it relates to the night of her birth and the storm that came with it. Contrary to what she would have believed, she says that Dragonstone doesn't feel like home, but Tyrion reassures her that they won't have to stay for long. She then comments on the fact that Cersei only controls parts of Westeros, to which Varys says this is due to the fact that many nobles despise her. Daenerys then grills Varys on his true loyalties, comparing his desire for a Targaryen restoration to that of Viserys, in which she also states that Varys only supported her when it suited him, and followed Viserys until his death. She also questions why he betrayed her father for Robert, to which he explains that he would have been executed if he had not done so and that he obeyed Robert's strength in contrast to Aerys's cruelty (Varys doesn't mention that Robert had rescinded his order that Daenerys be killed before he died). Varys then makes it clear that he is truly a representative of the common people, and that his loyalty to them ultimately outweighs his loyalty to any monarch, though he still believes Daenerys is the one most worth following. Daenerys then requests that Varys make a promise to advise her when she goes wrong, rather than betray her, to which he concedes.
Daenerys is then visited by Melisandre, who is welcomed due to the number of Red Priests who supported Daenerys in Meereen. Melisandre is immediately pardoned for siding with Stannis and explains to Daenerys that she may have something to do with the prophecy of The Prince That Was Promised. Daenerys points out that she is "no prince", prompting Missandei to explain that, in the language Melisandre used, the prophecy is gender-neutral. Melisandre further states that Daenerys has a role to play in the prophecy, as does another - the King in the North, Jon Snow. Tyrion is surprised and questions Melisandre, confirming she is talking about the Jon Snow who is the illegitimate son of Eddard Stark. When Daenerys asks if Tyrion knows him, Tyrion explains he traveled with Jon to Castle Black. Varys asks about Jon, and Daenerys learns of his role as the King in the North and of unifying the Northerners and the wildlings against a common enemy. Clearly intrigued by the sound of this man, Daenerys requests that Tyrion write a letter to Jon, after Tyrion tells her that Jon will prove himself a valuable ally in Daenerys's bid to claim the Iron Throne, particularly as the crimes committed by the Lannisters against his family give him enough reason to want Cersei overthrown, asking him to come to Dragonstone and bend the knee.
Daenerys at her council meeting.
Daenerys later stops an argument between Ellaria Sand and Tyrion over the assassination of Myrcella Baratheon, to which Daenerys replies Ellaria must respect her Hand. She also agrees with Tyrion over Yara's idea to attack King's Landing immediately, and that the Unsullied should attack Casterly Rock while the Westerosi armies lay siege to the capital. When everyone has left the chamber, she requests an audience alone with Olenna Tyrell. Daenerys then tells her that she knows Olenna is on her side due to their mutual hatred for Cersei, rather than a love for Daenerys herself. In response, Olenna encourages Daenerys to be a dragon, rather than a "sheep", like the other high lords and ladies.
When Jon and Davos Seaworth arrive at Dragonstone, Daenerys sits in the keep's throne room, waiting for them. After their entrance, Missandei speaks Daenerys's name and announces her many titles, which stand in stark contrast to Davos simply announcing Jon as "the King in the North." Initially, Daenerys assumes that he has come to bend the knee to her, as she is the rightful heir to the Iron Throne, and declared how Jon's ancestor Torrhen Stark bent knee to the Targaryens and was named Warden of the North, reminding that the eras wherein their Houses collaborated brought prosperity to the Seven Kingdoms. Jon, however, reminds her that any fealty House Stark owed House Targaryen ended when her father murdered his grandfather and uncle (though he accepts her apology on behalf of House Targaryen for the crimes committed against the Starks and he agrees she is not to blame for her father's sins) and states that his purpose is different; he has come to ask for her help in the coming fight against the Night King and his Army of the Dead, to which Daenerys would also need Jon's help in order to expunge the Night King's army.
Daenerys meets Jon Snow.
Daenerys becomes increasingly annoyed by Jon's refusal to bend the knee and tells him that since her marriage to Khal Drogo, she's been through countless ordeals of every kind, but has lived through all of them and even managed to take advantage of certain situations; all because of her faith in herself. That is the reason she believes that since her birth, she has been destined to rule Westeros. However, Jon insists that her kingdom will be nothing more than a graveyard should the Night King win.
Davos starts stating Jon's own achievements during his time as Lord Commander of the Night's Watch up until the moment he was crowned King by the Northmen, all of which Jon has achieved not by virtue of inheritance, as he has none due to being an illegitimate son, but rather, by his deeds and the faith his fellow Northmen have in him whose respect Jon gained as a leader. Both Daenerys and Tyrion notice something off in Davos's speech about Jon "taking a knife to the heart." As Davos speaks of Jon, it becomes apparent to Daenerys that Jon, like her, did not take power for the sake of taking it and his journey to his present standings was every bit as fraught with sacrifice and hardship as hers.
Tyrion takes up and urges them to kneel before Daenerys and, after the war against Cersei, their combined forces would defend the North. Jon refuses both because it may take longer to win the Iron Throne from Cersei and, by then, it may already be too late as at that point the Night King's army may have already bypassed The Wall and marched further down south into the Seven Kingdoms. Jon also explains that he doesn't know Daenerys at this point, that her claim to the throne rests on her descent from a king his family helped overthrow and he was chosen by his people to lead, so he must lead them as well as he can. Daenerys concedes that this is fair but counters by saying that if he insists on that view, she will count him as a rebel against her rule.
She ends when Varys whispers the events of the assault on the Targaryen fleet by telling Jon that he is not yet in her captivity, leading to Jon and Davos exiting the throne room. Varys then tells Daenerys that Ellaria, the Sand Snakes, Yara and the remaining Greyjoy forces are either dead or captured. She then asks if they have all been taken under control of Euron, the instigator of the attack, unknown of Theon Greyjoy's abandonment of Yara and his escape from the attack.
Sometime later, Tyrion talks her into letting Jon mine and make weapons of the dragonglass. He insists that if Jon is to be their ally, some good-willed intent must be shown from their side and as they have no use for the dragonglass, they have nothing to lose by letting Jon have it. When she goes back to Davos's saying of Jon "taking a knife to the heart", Tyrion brushes it off as a tall tale.
Daenerys allows Jon to mine dragonglass.
Daenerys and Jon meet in private at a spot overlooking the sea and the dragons, which roam the skies. She expresses similarities between them in having lost loved ones (Rhaegar and Viserys for Daenerys, Robb, and Rickon for Jon). Daenerys explains that since people once thought dragons were gone for good, they should examine what they believe they know, and Jon realizes Tyrion has been talking to both Daenerys and him. Daenerys reminds Jon she won't let Cersei stay in power and Jon responds he didn't expect she would. When Daenerys also explains she hasn't changed her mind about which kingdoms belong to the throne, Jon says he hasn't changed his mind about refusing to bend the knee either. Both come to a standstill until Daenerys offers to help him mine the dragonglass he needs and provide what he needs to do so. Jon asks her if she believes him now about the army of the dead, to which Daenerys responds by telling him to hurry and begin his work.
Tyrion then informs her of his plan for the Unsullied to take Casterly Rock through a secret passageway he used during his whoring days. However, this leads to the Unsullied ships being burned by Euron, causing them to be trapped at Casterly Rock. Daenerys ultimately loses another ally during the sack of Highgarden, in the forced suicide of Olenna and the loss of the Tyrell army.
Daenerys is informed of Grey Worm and Missandei's relationship.
Days later, Daenerys strolls around Dragonstone with Missandei at her side, both wondering about the fate of the Unsullied. Missandei reveals to the queen that certain things happened between her and Grey Worm, before they are interrupted by Jon Snow.
Jon makes Daenerys believe in the White Walkers.
He leads Daenerys through an underground cave, whose walls are rich in dragonglass. He shows her ancient wall drawings, which were made by the Children of the Forest. They depict the children themselves as well as the First Men and how they banded together to defeat their common enemy, the White Walkers. She is awestruck and starts becoming swayed by Jon's sayings, promising to defend the North with him when he bends the knee. Although he insists his people would never accept a southern ruler after everything they suffered, Daenerys asks him whether his own pride is more important than the lives of the Northmen.
After they leave the cave, Tyrion and Varys deliver news of the Unsullied's incomplete victory at Casterly Rock and the fall of Highgarden. Enraged at the loss of her allies, Daenerys snaps at Tyrion, accusing him of devising soft plans to protect his family and impulsively suggests flying to the Red Keep and burning it to the ground. She then turns her attention to Jon and asks for his advice. He tells her that all her followers saw her accomplish the impossible and believe she can do so yet again. However, using the dragons to destroy the castles and cities of Westeros would make her no different than the ones she is trying to overthrow.
Daenerys burns the Lannister-Tarly army.
When the combined armies of Jaime Lannister and Randyll Tarly prepare to finally leave Highgarden, Daenerys's horde of Dothraki attacks them as they cross the plains of the Reach, with Daenerys herself leading the charge riding on the back of Drogon. The Lannister-Tarly infantry assume an anti-cavalry shield wall, but Daenerys has Drogon blast them with dragonfire, clearing a path through the formation for her warriors to charge. Although the Lannister and Tarly forces fight fiercely and inflict heavy casualties against the Dothraki at first, the combination of dragonfire and cavalry charges overwhelms them, and their formations soon fall apart. Jaime briefly rallies a group of archers to target Daenerys as she dives again, hoping to kill her and leave her forces leaderless, but Drogon pulls up sharply and the arrows glance harmlessly off his scales. Daenerys and Drogon launch dive-bombing attacks from above to destroy the Lannisters' supply convoy, and the Dothraki mercilessly slaughter every fleeing soldier they find. Seemingly out of nowhere, a giant bolt whizzes right past Drogon as he flies and Daenerys immediately heads for the scorpion to destroy it. Before she can reach it, Bronn (who is manning the weapon) manages to strike Drogon's wing, causing the dragon to wince in pain and lose his balance.
After plummeting nearly to the ground, Drogon regains his balance right in front of the scorpion and incinerates it with his fire-breath. He then lands on the battlefield and demolishes what's left of the scorpion with an angry swipe of his tail. Daenerys dismounts on the riverbank and tries to pull the bolt out of Drogon's shoulder. While trying to do so, she turns to see a mounted Jaime galloping towards her with a spear in hand. Drogon moves to protect his mother, shielding her behind his head and shooting a line of fire at him, only for Bronn to save him by tackling him off of his horse into the river.
Daenerys sentences Randyll and Dickon Tarly to death.
In the aftermath of the battle, the survivors are rounded up and taken before Daenerys. She claims they've been manipulated by Cersei and offers them a choice: bend the knee and join her to build a better world with her, or refuse and die. As if to reinforce this point, Drogon roars menacingly from his perch behind Daenerys. Most of the survivors quickly kneel, with the exception of Randyll Tarly and Dickon Tarly. Randyll refuses to trade his honor for his life, claiming he has chosen his queen. Tyrion suggests she send him to the Wall, but Randyll reminds her that she cannot, as she is not his queen. Dickon follows his father, despite Randyll's protests. Daenerys accepts their choice and sentences them both to death by dragonfire, executing them.
Jon and Daenerys discuss Drogon, Viserion and Rhaegal.
Back at Dragonstone, Jon watches as Daenerys lands Drogon in front of him. The dragon approaches Jon, who stands his ground. Drogon allows Jon to touch him, to Daenerys's astonishment. She dismounts, at which point Drogon flies off, and claims that the "gorgeous beasts" Jon sees are her children. Daenerys informs Jon of her victory over the Lannisters and they discuss what is needed to help people. Daenerys asks him what Davos meant by "taking a knife in the heart for his people." Jon avoids discussing his resurrection, claiming that Davos gets carried away, but before Daenerys can press him further, they are interrupted by the arrival of Jorah, who has been cured of his greyscale. Delighted, Daenerys embraces Jorah and introduces him to Jon, who tells him that his father was a great man.
Inside the Chamber of the Painted Table at Dragonstone, Daenerys holds a meeting with her advisors, as well as Jon and Davos. Daenerys extends her relief to Jon at his discovery that his half-siblings Arya and Bran are still alive and at Winterfell after years of believing them dead. Jon, having received Bran's warning of the Night King marching towards Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and fearing that the Night King will make it past the Wall, states that he must go home to Winterfell and prepare to fight the army of the dead. Daenerys questions his ability to do so with the modest amount of men sworn to fight for him, and Jon requests her help once again. She refuses, noting that Cersei wins if she abandons her cause to take the Iron Throne. Unsure of how to proceed, Tyrion presents the idea of bringing evidence of the army of the dead to Cersei, in the hopes of convincing her to join the fight against the White Walkers. Jon decides to lead an expedition north of the Wall to capture a wight and bring it south to King's Landing. Daenerys, at first, doesn't agree with Jon's departure but is convinced by Tyrion's confidence in the mission.
Daenerys bids farewell to Jorah.
As Jon, Jorah, and their group prepare to depart on boats for Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, Daenerys and her entourage arrive and bid Jorah farewell. Jorah quips that he is used to saying farewell. When Jon and Daenerys bid farewell, he says that there is a chance that he might not return and that she won't deal with the King in the North anymore, Daenerys tells him that she's grown used to him. Then Jon wishes her well in the wars to come. Along with Tyrion, Daenerys watches as Jon, Jorah, and the rest of the party depart on their boats for Eastwatch.
Sometime later, Daenerys discusses Drogo, Jorah, Daario and Jon Snow with Tyrion. A concerned Daenerys says that they're heroes who all do stupid, brave things and die. Tyrion notes that all the men she's named have all fallen in love with her. Daenerys dismisses this about Jon, claiming that he is "too little" for her, but Tyrion thinks Jon has feelings for her. When Daenerys clarifies she knows Tyrion is brave, that's why she chose him as her Hand, they discuss Cersei and how to take King's Landing. Explaining fear is all Cersei has, Tyrion tells Daenerys that it made the Lannisters' power brittle. When Daenerys says Aegon got a long way with fear, Tyrion tells Daenerys she needs to be different from who came before her if she wishes to break the wheel. The negotiations with Cersei will be difficult and Tyrion cautions Daenerys that his sister will likely try to provoke her. He lightly admonishes her for losing her temper and burning Randyll and Dickon, but Daenerys says it was necessary. Tyrion believes Daenerys acted too hastily instead of exploring other options and giving the Tarlys time to think. He wants Daenerys to defeat her enemies, as he believes in the world she wants to build. The subject turns to her succession and he notes she told him she can't have children. Daenerys wants to set this discussion aside until after she wins the throne, and leaves.
Daenerys leaves for Eastwatch.
Later, she receives a raven from Gendry calling for help beyond the Wall. Against Tyrion's advice, insisting Jon knew the risks of the mission and everything they've done will be for nothing if she dies beyond the Wall, and therefore unable to break the metaphorical "wheel", Daenerys flies North with her dragons, leaving her army on Dragonstone.
She arrives in time to save Jon and his party, burning countless wights and landing for them to climb up. The Night King, however, impales Viserion with an ice spear through the throat, killing him. Enraged, Jon sets his eyes on the Night King but as the monster reaches for another spear, he then shouts at Daenerys to leave. Reluctantly, she and the others flee just as the Night King throws another spear at Drogon, which misses, and they return to Eastwatch. Daenerys stands on the Wall with Jorah, who ushers her to leave, but stays, obviously concerned for Jon. When he returns on the horse of Benjen Stark, who sacrificed his life to save him, Daenerys is visibly elated and sees Jon's stab wounds for the first time when they remove Jon's frozen clothes, realizing the truth of what Davos said about him.
Dany and Jon ally in the loss of Viserion.
Daenerys sits at Jon's side until he wakes up; a distraught Jon apologizes for Viserion's death, believing it his fault, but Daenerys insisted she needed to see the scale of the threat facing them for herself, "You have to see it to know. Now I know." She reveals that the dragons are the only children she will ever have, promising that they will destroy the Night King forever. Jon thanks her and calls her "Dany", to her amusement, though remembering that is was what her brother Viserys used to call her and she tells Jon that's not the company he wants to keep. Jon then calls her, "My Queen," and pledges fealty to her, moving Daenerys to tears; when she asks what the Northern lords who have sworn to him will make of this choice, Jon gently assures Daenerys that like him, they will come to see her for the good person she truly is. Daenerys tearfully responds that he hopes she deserves it and clasping each other's hands, Jon assures her she does. They share a moment before Daenerys insists Jon rest and she leaves.
Daenerys arrives at the Dragonpit on Drogon's back.
At the Dragonpit, the various factions meet: Cersei, Jaime, Qyburn and Euron represent the Iron Throne. Jon, Davos, and Brienne represent the North and Daenerys's court. When Cersei demands to know where her rival is, the Dragon Queen makes a suitably dramatic entrance on Drogon's back, with Rhaegal flying overhead.
After making apologies for her lateness, they proceed in getting the meeting on track, Tyrion, Daenerys, and Jon try to warn Cersei of the greater threat coming for them all, but she dismisses it as a ploy to trick her into lowering her defenses. To prove their claims, the Hound returns with the crate containing the wight, which is worryingly silent. Sandor gets the crate open, but there is still no movement. He finally gives the crate a massive kick, which prompts the enraged wight to launch itself out and charge toward the nearest target - Cersei, appropriately enough. Visibly horrified, the Lannister queen and her allies recoil in horror as Sandor pulls the wight back on a chain, its claws inches from Cersei's face, and manages to slice the creature in half when it turns to attack him. The assembled look on in shock as the wight's upper half still moves around. Jon steps forward and picks up the wight's discarded hand, using a torch provided by Davos to demonstrate how fire can be used to stop them. He then uses a dragonglass dagger to the heart to end the wight's upper half, bluntly stating that if they don't win the coming war, such a fate awaits every person in Westeros. A horror-struck Jaime asks how many wights are coming, and Daenerys tells him the army of the dead numbers at least 100,000. Euron asks if the wights can swim. When Jon responds, "No," Euron announces to Cersei his intention to withdraw the Iron Fleet back to the Iron Islands. He declares that he has been over the whole world and has never been terrified until now. On his way out, Euron tells Daenerys to retreat to her island while he returns to his own and to come find him when they are the only two left alive.
Seemingly convinced, Cersei immediately offers terms: satisfied that Daenerys is concerned with the Army of the Dead, Cersei will not withdraw her troops, but will guarantee that they will not hinder the Targaryen or Northern forces in any way during the battle against the White Walkers. She refuses to deal with Daenerys at all, however, and calls on Jon Snow, as King in the North and Ned Stark's son, to keep the truce and to stay out of any future conflict between Cersei and Daenerys. Jon, however, says that he cannot serve two queens - and reveals to all assembled that he has already declared for Daenerys, infuriating all three Lannisters present. Declaring that there will be no truce if it is just her and Daenerys, Cersei storms out, content to let the Starks and Targaryens battle the undead alone and then deal with whoever emerges victorious from that conflict.
Daenerys tells Jon of Viserion's sacrifice.
Meanwhile, Daenerys and Tyrion rip into Jon over his ill-advised action. Tyrion suggests that learning to lie just a little might be a good skill. Jon responds by arguing that while such an attitude may or may not have contributed to getting his father killed, if no one is willing to speak the truth, then everyone's word is worthless, and lies will not help them win the coming fight. Tyrion reluctantly decides that he will go and try to talk some reason into Cersei alone. Daenerys and Jon protest, fearing Cersei may have him killed out of spite, but Tyrion insists it's the only way if they don't want everything they've done to be for nothing and bids them wait.
While Tyrion goes to talk to Cersei, Daenerys and Jon discuss the dragons and how her ancestors caged them, and in turn, her family became less impressive as the power of the dragons waned, that they became like everyone else. Jon responds that Daenerys is not like everyone else. When Daenerys confides she was made infertile by Mirri Maz Duur, Jon questions this, particularly when she admits it was Mirri Maz Duur who told her she was infertile. Their conversation is interrupted by the return of all three Lannisters. Cersei has agreed to work with Daenerys, but not by keeping her troops back: the Lannister army will march north to fight alongside the Starks and Targaryens.
In the Chamber of the Painted Table, Daenerys and her court discuss logistics. It will take the Dothraki a fortnight to reach Winterfell, and the plan is to have Jon and the Unsullied cross the sea by ship and meet them at White Harbor. Jorah Mormont points out that the North is not really safer for her than anywhere else, as someone with a memory of Robert's Rebellion and an idea of becoming a hero could easily take her out with a single crossbow bolt. He suggests she fly to Winterfell to avoid any potential unpleasantness. Jon counters that Daenerys ride with them so that the North can see her as a liberator and ally. After a moment's consideration, Daenerys decides to sail north with Jon. Jorah, suspecting a different reason for her decision, throws her a look, which she notices but avoids.
Daenerys and Jon give in to their feelings.
Some time after setting sail, Jon knocks on the door of Daenerys's cabin. She answers and meets his gaze without words. After a moment, he enters, and, with their eyes still locked on one another, shuts the door. Unaware of their biological connection to one another, they finally give into the burgeoning passion between them and make love.
Unbeknownst to both of them, Tyrion had also been on his way to speak with his queen, and had seen Jon enter the cabin.
Daenerys arrives at Winterfell.
Upon arrival in the North, Daenerys, Jon, and their combined forces march through Winter town on their way to Winterfell. The townspeople cast her many suspicious looks, and Jon reminds her that Northerners have a long-established distrust of outsiders. Immediately following this exchange, Drogon and Rhaegal fly overhead, startling the townspeople and causing Daenerys to smile proudly. In Winterfell's courtyard, Jon introduces her to Sansa, and the two women exchange a civil but tense greeting.
Daenerys sits at Winterfell's high table.
Later, Daenerys is seated at the high table in the castle's great hall along with Jon and Sansa. Tyrion attempts to calm the slightly hostile Northern lords by telling them that the largest army ever seen has been assembled, but Sansa asks how she is supposed to feed such a force along with two dragons. When she asks what dragons even eat, Daenerys replies, "Whatever they want."
While inspecting the preparations for the coming battle, Daenerys remarks to Jon upon Sansa's apparent dislike for her. While Jon assures her that Sansa wasn't overly fond of him when they were growing up, Daenerys rebuffs him by saying that they don't need to like each other, but she will be respected as queen. Several Dothraki approach the pair and mention that the dragons haven't been eating as much as they normally do.
Jon and Daenerys share a moment.
Daenerys and Jon come upon the two dragons in a bone pit outside Winterfell's walls. She mounts Drogon, planning to take him for a ride, and suggests that Jon mount Rhaegal. After much trepidation, Jon does so, and the dragons take the pair on a wild ride over the snow-covered landscape, Daenerys being somewhat pleased with Jon's almost instant connection with her dragon. Eventually, they land near a waterfall in an area where Jon used to hunt as a youth. Away from all concerns about the coming battle, Daenerys and Jon share an intimate moment.
Daenerys and Jorah later encounter Samwell Tarly in Winterfell's library. After praising him for realizing the secret behind dragonglass and curing Jorah of his greyscale, she asks if there is anything she can do to repay him. Sam jokingly asks for a pardon for stealing books from the Citadel and for taking his family's ancestral sword without permission. Upon hearing his surname is "Tarly", Daenerys realizes that he is, in fact, Randyll Tarly's son, and proceeds to tell him the difficult truth that she executed his father and brother for rebelling against her. Sam is speechless for a few moments before asking to leave the library.
Daenerys puts Jaime on trial.
When Jaime arrives at Winterfell, Daenerys is once again seated at the high table with Jon and Sansa. The two women harshly berate the Kingslayer for his past actions and question whether his loyalty to their cause is genuine. Only when Brienne vouches for Jaime does Sansa trust him, and Daenerys allows his sword to be returned to him.
Daenerys and Sansa discuss Jon.
Later, Daenerys speaks privately with Sansa, addressing some of the thorny political issues involved in their alliance. Sansa is afraid Daenerys has ulterior motives and that because Jon loves her, he will do stupid things for love. Daenerys assures Sansa this is not the case and confesses her love for Jon, explaining she has had only one goal - retaking the Iron Throne - until she met Jon and now she's in the North helping him fight the Night King and the army of the dead. Although a greater understanding appears to develop between the two women, Sansa remains firm in her conviction that the Northerners will never truly accept an outsider as their ruler again, and bluntly asks Daenerys what her plans for the North are once the dead have been defeated. The awkward moment is interrupted by Maester Wolkan announcing the arrival of Theon and his men.
When the survivors from Eastwatch bring the news that the army of the dead will be at Winterfell's gates within a day, preparations inside the castle begin to move forward at a feverish pace. Daenerys meets with all the prominent commanders and heads of houses to discuss battle strategy, and later finds herself in the crypts with Jon. While standing in front of Lyanna Stark's statue, Daenerys recounts how everybody told her Rhaegar was decent and kind but that he kidnapped and raped Lyanna. However, Jon reveals Rhaegar did not rape Lyanna and they were in love. He tells Daenerys the truth about his parentage and she is stunned. She immediately questions the validity of the story. When Jon assures her that it's true, she realizes that Jon actually has a better claim to the throne than she does. Before either can discuss the matter further, a horn sounds three times to signal the arrival of the army of the dead.
Jon and Daenerys watch as the battle at Winterfell begins.
Daenerys and Jon watch with Drogon and Rhaegal from a distance as the Dothraki charge the army of the dead, but when the Dothraki are slaughtered, Daenerys breaks away from Jon's plan to wait for the Night King and attacks the army of the dead with dragonfire. Daenerys and Jon's visibility is cut off when the White Walkers summon a blizzard, however. High in the skies above Winterfell, Daenerys and Drogon are suddenly attacked by the Night King on Viserion, but she is able to evade him. Daenerys and Drogon later knock the Night King off Viserion, and Daenerys has Drogon burn the Night King, though to no avail.
Daenerys cries over Jorah's body.
They escape as the Night King hurls an ice spear at Drogon. When Jon is surrounded by newly risen wights, Daenerys saves him with Drogon, burning through wights and creating a path for Jon to rush into Winterfell to help Bran and stop the Night King. She urges Jon to go and after he runs to stop the Night King, wights climb onto Drogon, and Daenerys falls off while Drogon flies away. Daenerys takes hold of a discarded sword and slays a few wights who come her way or Jorah's. However, she is also protected by Jorah, who dies defending her, leaving Daenerys sobbing while Drogon wraps around them after the Army of the Dead falls.
Daenerys celebrates Winterfell's victory.
After the battle, which saw a living victory, Daenerys mourns the dead outside Winterfell, lighting a pyre. She kisses the dead Jorah's forehead and whispers something to him. Daenerys later celebrates at the feast inside Winterfell. Tormund makes a toast to Daenerys, "To the Dragon Queen!" and Daenerys stands up herself, toasting Arya Stark as the "Hero of Winterfell." However, despite her initially celebratory mood and the smiles she exchanges with Jon, Daenerys's mood grows downcast when Tormund begins to praise Jon and she finds herself lonely and envious over Jon's popularity with the wildlings, looking around at the groups of people around her.
Daenerys finds Jon in his chambers that night and they kiss, beginning to undress, before Jon stops himself due to learning of their relation. Daenerys laments that she wishes Jon never told her about his true identity because otherwise, she'd be happy. She is afraid others will press his claim and take the throne from her. Jon tries to assure her he doesn't want the throne.
Daenerys begs for Jon's secrecy.
Daenerys tells Jon it doesn't matter what he wants or how many times he swears fealty to her - he didn't want to be King in the North either. Jon gets on one knee before her and says that he'll refuse the crown because she is his queen. Daenerys begs Jon not to tell anyone else about his parentage, fearing that it will destroy them. Jon insists he must tell his sisters because he owes them the truth about who he is, certain his sisters will keep it secret, everything will work out, and they can all live together. However, Daenerys believes the only way they can live together is if Jon keeps his identity secret.
In her anger, Daenerys attempts to avenge Rhaegal's death by killing Euron.
Daenerys leads a war council for her resumed campaign against Cersei Lannister for the Iron Throne. As her fleet is sailing back to Dragonstone, she rides Drogon next to Rhaegal, when suddenly Rhaegal is shot by three bolts before plummeting into Blackwater Bay. Euron's Iron Fleet reveals itself from behind Dragonstone's rocks and tries to take down Daenerys and Drogon, but are unable to do as they pull back. Euron instead targets Daenerys's fleet, destroying it and capturing Missandei in the process. On Dragonstone, Daenerys becomes tempted to storm King's Landing. Daenerys, Tyrion, Varys, and Grey Worm parley with Cersei outside the gates of King's Landing, where Cersei executes Missandei in front of them.
A mournful Daenerys discovers treason in her ranks.
Back at Dragonstone, a mourning Daenerys refuses to eat and becomes increasingly angered at the rule of House Lannister, as well as becoming increasingly paranoid that her claim to the throne is losing legitimacy. However, her fears are found to be true when she learns through Tyrion that Varys has plotted to betray her and crown Jon in her place, after learning the truth of his parentage from Sansa. Daenerys has Varys brought out onto the shores of Dragonstone, where she sentences him to die by having Drogon burn him, just as she promised him earlier if he were ever to betray her.
Daenerys confronts Jon on his claim.
Later, when Daenerys and Jon talk, she reminds him of her warning to him about telling Sansa the truth of who he was. Daenerys says Sansa is as responsible for Varys's death as she is. Jon attempts to reassure Daenerys that he doesn't want the crown (having also told Varys he wouldn't take it). Daenerys laments that Jon has the love of the people while she does not - she only has fear. In an effort to compensate, Jon tells Daenerys he loves her and that she'll always be his queen. Daenerys kisses him and Jon gives into the kiss, but breaks it off due to their blood ties. Daenerys accepts this and resigns herself to being feared.
Tyrion consults with Daenerys, the latter of whom is now ordering Grey Worm and the Unsullied to sack King's Landing. Tyrion is strongly against it, saying that the citizens of the city are not Daenerys's enemy and are innocent. Daenerys counters that the slaves in Meereen turned against their masters and liberated themselves. Tyrion responds that the smallfolk are afraid of Cersei because Cersei will punish any rebellious acts. Daenerys says they are hostages in a tyrant's grip, and Tyrion begs her not to burn the city, or thousands of children will die. Daenerys counters that Cersei is using mercy as a weakness against them but Cersei is wrong, mercy is their strength - her mercy for the future generations of Westeros, not those in the present. In a last-ditch effort to get through to Daenerys, Tyrion bargains one last time: wait for the city to surrender and call off the attack when the people ring the city's bells, indicating the full, unconditional surrender of Cersei and her army. Reluctantly, Daenerys agrees. Before Tyrion leaves, she informs her Hand that Jaime was caught by her men trying to get past their lines. She warns him that the next time he fails her, it will be his very last.
Daenerys attacks Euron's Iron Fleet atop Drogon as the Battle of King's Landing begins, sinking the fleet and destroying the scorpions. Daenerys then attacks the scorpions stationed across the walls of King's Landing, destroying them all, preventing the Lannister soldiers from targeting Drogon.
Having lost so much, Daenerys succumbs to the Targaryen madness.
Daenerys destroys the gate and its walls that the Golden Company guards, killing many of the sellswords from the debris that falls upon them. This allows the Dothraki, Unsullied, the Northern and the Vale armies to destroy the remaining sellsword contingent and charge into the city. Overwhelmed, the Lannister soldiers and civilians surrender, ringing the city's bells. However, Daenerys, consumed by grief and anger, instead goes on a rampage, using Drogon to burn King's Landing. The dragonfire also sets off the wildfire caches placed around the city by her father, the Mad King, years ago, leaving the city in ashes. At the same time, her armies, taking their lead from Daenerys, proceed to run riot through the city, killing any Lannister soldiers and civilians they can get their hands on.
Daenerys is hailed by her armies in a ruined King's Landing.
Thousands of the surrendered soldiers and innocent civilians are killed in the firestorm across the city, either from Drogon, Daenerys's soldiers, or collapsing buildings and debris. After the battle, Daenerys orders the captured Lannister soldiers to be executed.
Daenerys later stands over the carnage and ashes of King's Landing, as she is cheered on by the Dothraki and guarded by the Unsullied. She delivers a speech to her victorious armies, proclaiming that they gave her the Seven Kingdoms and "liberated" the people of King's Landing but declares their war is not over. She will continue to "liberate" the rest of the world as they did for King's Landing, and will "break the wheel" to free it from those whom she perceives as tyrants. Tyrion approaches Daenerys, who confronts him about freeing his brother. She becomes angry after he retorts that she slaughtered a city, and tosses away his Hand of the Queen pin. In return, Daenerys has him arrested. Jon visits an imprisoned Tyrion, who tries to convince a conflicted Jon on what Daenerys has become. He understands Jon loves her, he loves her too, and knows he is asking Jon to do a terrible thing, but it is also the right thing. Tyrion then stresses that Daenerys is now the greatest threat to the people.
Daenerys finally observes the Iron Throne.
Walking through the charred remains of the throne room, seeing what she saw in her vision in the House of the Undying years ago, with the Iron Throne the only piece completely intact, Daenerys ascends in awe and reaches her hand out to touch one of the snow-covered blades. Before she can sit down, Jon enters and she recounts to him the conquest of her ancestor Aegon and how he had the Iron Throne built. Jon confronts her about the many atrocities she committed during the battle; however, she justifies her actions and, despite Jon's pleas for her do so, she refuses to forgive Tyrion and the people of King's Landing. He begs Daenerys to make the people see that they made a mistake, and to make them understand.
Unswayed by Jon's reasoning, Daenerys asserts that they can't hide behind small mercies and the world they need cannot be built by those loyal to the old one. Jon desperately argues that their world must be one of mercy; Daenerys assures him that she is building a good world. Distressed, Jon asks her how she knows it's good and Daenerys confidently asserts that she knows what is good, trying to convince Jon that he does too. Upset, Jon is unconvinced and asks about everybody else who thinks they know what is good, to which Daenerys responds, "They don't get to choose." Daenerys embraces Jon and makes clear her desire for Jon to help her build the new world she envisages and urges him that this is how they break the wheel.
Dany dies in Jon's arms.
Jon tells Daenerys that she is his queen, "Now and always." As the two of them share a final kiss, Jon thrusts a dagger into her heart. He catches Daenerys as she falls, blood escaping her nose and mouth, a look of confused heartbreak draws upon her face. As an anguished Jon holds Daenerys, he grieves over her.
Drogon notices Jon laying Daenerys down on the ground and approaches them. Drawing closer, he snarls at Jon before trying to nudge his mother awake. Upon realizing that she is dead, Drogon, roars in rage and grief at Jon before unleashing a jet of fire that melts the Iron Throne. He then carries off Daenerys's body with his claws, flying far off into the distance, never to be seen again.
With House Targaryen legally extinct, the Great Council of 305 AC decide that the Seven Kingdoms will be an elective monarchy under Brandon I. Through this elective monarchy, Tyrion fulfills Daenerys's wish of "breaking the wheel", while Jon is exiled to the Night's Watch in order to avoid a war between the Unsullied and his supporters.
Daenerys was polite and well-spoken, but filled with quiet determination. As a child and young woman she was easily cowed by her brother's ambitions and occasional cruel rages. She was also somewhat naive of the world at that point, due to being young and living her life as an exile (with only her petulant brother to rely on for knowledge), but her time amongst the Dothraki taught her pride, confidence, and the skills of command. At the same time, her own intelligence began to manifest, and she was quick to understand that she was now free to pursue her own path.
Daenerys spent her entire early life living on the sufferance of others, bouncing back and forth between benefactors (like Illyrio Mopatis) with her brother, until whatever dreams those benefactors had of supporting the siblings' claim to the Iron Throne wore off, and they were forced to move on to another patron. As a result, Daenerys never knew a true home, and constantly living under her brother's domination gave her great empathy with the downtrodden of the world: she was deeply sympathetic to those she perceived as oppressed, while at the same time, her pent-up frustration from years of being dominated by her petty would-be-king of a brother made Daenerys capable of utter ruthlessness against those she perceived as oppressing others. This experience caused Daenerys to develop a largely black-and-white worldview, and she could be idealistic to a fault: upon seeing the plight of the slaves in Slaver's Bay, Daenerys became determined to free all the slaves in the region, with little thought devoted to the practical after-effects which would result from such an action and without thinking that between some slaves and their masters could exist respect or even love. A particular example of this is when the Great Masters of Meereen crucified 163 children as she approached the city in an attempt to intimidate her. After she took the city, instead of pardoning the slave-masters, she had 163 of them crucified in retribution, including many who opposed the crucifixion of the children, unconcerned about any negative political fallout which would result.
Other examples of Daenerys's naivety and narrow-mindedness were when Tyrion asked her how she intended to take the Iron Throne, and Daenerys answered that she would simply earn the common people's favor. This demonstrated both her lack of understanding of the real power wielded by the noble houses, and that she didn't have a clear vision of the political situation in Westeros; in Slaver's Bay, she earned the favor of the commoners by abolishing slavery, but in Westeros there were no slaves to free or similarly oppressed people to help. The invasion she ended up launching against Cersei made Daenerys, in the citizens' eyes, a conqueror rather than a liberator. She caused further suffering to those who had already lost so much during the previous war and, in the eyes of Northmen, she was the one who came to deny them the independence they had gained after so many sacrifices. While such an outcome would almost certainly have happened, the fact that Daenerys was genuinely surprised at the lack of accommodation to her rule proves even more the idealistic vision she had of Westeros.
Her keeping to consider Westeros her home, while she was just born there, and her disappointment for the Westerosi's lack of recognition, while Ser Jorah himself told her from the beginning that the smallfolk don't care who their ruler is as long their lives are free from starvation, illness, and war, showed another aspect that made her fell prey of her naivety: her stubbornness. Even before departing from Essos her advisors, directly or not, warned her that coming to Westeros wouldn't have made her a liberator. Then her reaction showed how much she refused to accept the reality: she didn't have peaceful ways to be recognized as the rightful queen of the Seven Kingdoms, but her determination prevented her from questioning herself and her position before it was too late to find a solution.
About her family's fame, particularly after her brother's death, Daenerys has always shown a dual and, in some cases, opportunistic if not even hypocritical consideration: Daenerys has always remarked how much different she was from her father, who she was not afraid to call evil to reassure others about the goodness of her intentions, just as both she and her supporters have always remarked that she became queen through her own strength and that they follow her by choice; however, Daenerys kept using her status as the Mad King's daughter as a right to aspire to the Iron Throne, as well as, during her first meeting with the then King in the North, Jon Snow, in the face of the latter's reluctance to bow to her, Daenerys, who a minute earlier had asked him to not judge her on the basis of her father's actions, tried to intimidate him by accusing Jon's (supposed) father, Ned Stark, of conspiring with Robert Baratheon in his attempt to kill her. And even after accepting that her father was maybe the worst ruler in history, she kept considering Jaime Lannister only a traitor. This leaves a big question about how much she cared about her father, if she truly loved him or if she considered him only a tool for reconquer the Iron Throne.
Daenerys showed herself to be quite vengeful on several occasions, mainly to individuals who had caused her significant grievances. When Mirri Maz Duur tricked her into allowing the use blood magic to "save" Drogo, Daenerys had the witch bound and burnt alive. Upon learning the role that Xaro and Doreah played in the theft of her dragons (and the deaths of her servants), she had them both locked in an empty vault. She had Randyll and Dickon Tarly burned alive for refusing to bend the knee after she defeated them in battle, which may have further soured her reputation in Westeros along with Cersei's anti-Daenerys propaganda. In the last case, however, it is worth noting that she executed them only after offering them the choice of surrender, which they declined. Tyrion also seemed to believe that her execution of the Tarlys was more the result of losing her temper, rather than any deliberate ruthlessness. Also, her refusal of listening to Tyrion in that moment could be caused also by both her anger against his military failure and by Olenna Tyrell's advice about learning to take decisions by herself.
Despite her perceived confidence and ruthlessness, Daenerys has displayed surprisingly tender emotion and at times can appear quite vulnerable, at least in private. Her fondness for children has been shown multiple times, and when Drogon incinerated the young daughter of a shepherd in Meereen, she was visibly disturbed, which led to her locking Rhaegal and Viserion in the catacombs to prevent further atrocities. When attempting to quell the opposition to her rule in Meereen, she finds herself at a loss and desperately asks Missandei for her input, not trying to hide her frazzled state. After rescuing Jon and company from a wight attack - and losing Viserion in the process - she doesn't try to hide her tears. In the same interaction, when Jon declares his loyalty to her and says that the other Northern lords will come to see her as he does, she says in a rather small voice "I hope I deserve it", showing a sense of doubt that had rarely been displayed before.
It is debatable whether Daenerys was a highly skilled battle commander. She did win some impressive victories, especially her swift conquest of Slaver's Bay and the Siege of Meereen, but each time she had a vast (and unexpected) advantage in numbers, as well as the support of her three dragons. Thus, her victories had more to do with overwhelming the enemy than brilliant tactical leadership. On the other hand, knowing that she was inexperienced in the art of warfare, Daenerys took care to surround herself with experienced and capable warriors who could advise her and help coordinate her battles. She also had a clear sense of strategy, if not specific tactics; she knew how to win battles in such a way to leave herself in the strongest position possible, and avoided engagements that would result in heavy casualties, in order to conserve and protect the troops at her disposal. Daenerys certainly knew how to put her dragons to decisive effect in battle; her use of Drogon at the Sack of Astapor and the Battle of the Goldroad ended both battles almost before they started.
After losing Rhaegal in her first battle against the Iron Fleet, Daenerys became enraged and would have incinerated the fleet then-and-there, but realized that a head-on attack would be putting her remaining dragon, Drogon, in great danger. In her next encounter with the Iron Fleet, she had the insight to change her approach, managing to destroy the fleet with apparently little effort and ensure Drogon's survival. She also managed to skillfully eliminate all the scorpions perched on the battlements of King's Landing and secure the surrender of its inhabitants with what seemed like a minimal death toll.
Therefore, in her life before her descent into madness, Daenerys showed herself to be a strong and determined woman, sometimes a little too emotional, rash and idealistic, but also benevolent, decent and able to understand her mistakes and learn from them. Unfortunately, this, along with the traumas she suffered and her obsession with regaining the rule of the Seven Kingdoms, led her to be also too fragile to bear the burden of her moral defeat: despite having proved to be, both as a person and as a ruler, much better than her enemies, finding out how this was not enough to be appreciated by the other inhabitants of the Seven Kingdoms pushed her over the edge, making her the tyrant she had always sworn never to become.
Initially, Daenerys did not exhibit the "Targaryen madness" that plagued many of her ancestors, including her father and, to a lesser extent, her brother Viserys. Like most Targaryens, she could be ruthless to her perceived enemies, but while Viserys was cruel and demanding to his servants and even his benefactors, Daenerys reciprocated the loyalty of those who followed her with gratitude and compassion, especially towards her inner circle of friends and her dragons. On the other hand, insanity was often a late-onset condition in the Targaryens, and it didn't always manifest in obvious ways: One could argue that certain of Daenerys's actions, such as her crucifixion of 163 slave masters in Meereen and her burning the men of House Tarly with dragonfire, were telltale signs of Targaryen madness, but even these are not as simple as they appear: In the former case, she felt she was avenging the deaths of 163 innocent slave children that the masters had crucified in order to intimidate her, thus there was a well-intentioned, if brutal, motive behind the act. In the latter case, the men of House Tarly were in open rebellion against her and had refused her offer of bending the knee, thus making the distinction different from inflicting punishment for its own sake.
In Daenerys's case, whatever traces of the Targaryen madness she had within her were also heavily exacerbated by a series of unexpected external factors. This series of intense political blows and significant personal losses, all of which were experienced in a fairly short period of time, had a noticeable effect on her mental state:
During the Battle of King's Landing, Daenerys finally snapped - burning the inhabitants alive even though the city had surrendered to her - and by all appearances seemed to have gone mad. However, this may not have been the actual "Targaryen madness" that prompted her father to attempt a similar action: It is equally possible that her actions were motivated or even triggered by the extreme anger and grief over her recent losses, most of which were caused in some way by the Lannisters. Also, it should be noted that the Targaryen Madness, historically, does not always equate to "insanity" as we might understand it. In fact, of all the Targaryens who ruled as kings, the only one who could truly be called "insane" in the contemporary sense was Aerys II; Daenerys's father heard voices in his head and lost all touch with reality. Daenerys displayed no such symptoms, and after her destructive rampage, she seemed perfectly lucid when speaking to Jon in the ruins of the Red Keep. Madness takes many forms, including true psychopathy, which seems to have emerged in Daenerys. Though her actions may be justifiable, that does not make them right, or proof of a sound mind. Her ancestor Maegor, it could be argued, was justified in taking a similarly harsh hand in dealing with the rebellious Faith Militant, but his cruelty was objectively excessive and, as his successor, Jaehaerys I, proved, not the only solution to the problem.
Daenerys's extreme actions could also have been triggered by the destruction of her dreams: While she had accepted the stories of her father's madness were true, she sincerely believed it was her destiny to become Queen of the Seven Kingdoms by virtue of her birthright. Her many accomplishments in Essos, including her dragons' birth, her liberation of slaves, and her persuading the Dothraki to follow her across the sea, only furthered this vision of a grand destiny in her mind. As Tyrion had previously warned her, however, neither her accomplishments nor her birthright were guaranteed to secure support in Westeros, either from the common people or the noble houses. After discovering that Jon was the true heir to the Iron Throne, and that people in Westeros viewed her not as a liberator but as an invader, she realized that her dreams were truly empty. This would have been a great blow to her psyche, and unable to accept a future in which she wouldn't sit on the Iron Throne, she decided that she had to take it by force.
The sight of the Red Keep and the sound of its tolling bell triggered something in Daenerys and finally caused her to snap. She seemingly showed no mercy as thousands of innocent people died in dragonfire, and shocked her allies with the devastation she wrought. Daenerys appeared to turn into a worse tyrant than those she set out to eliminate, posing an ethical dilemma for her former lover and prime claimant to the Iron Throne, Jon Snow, whom Daenerys hoped would join her in ruling her new world. After discussing the recent turn of events and the dramatic shift in Daenerys's personality with an incarcerated Tyrion, Jon made the fateful decision to end her reign before it began; for the good of the realm and its people - the same values that the Night's Watch and his own experiences had long instilled in him - Jon tearfully plunged his dagger into Daenerys's heart. Whether she truly succumbed to the Targaryen Madness or not, in the end she became like her father, the one thing she did not want to be, and tragically suffered the same fate as him; stabbed to death by one she thought truly loyal to her.
Daenerys is the second member of the Targaryen dynasty to bear her name. The first Daenerys was the sister of King Daeron II, who lived a century before Daenerys Stormborn. The earlier Daenerys wed into House Martell as part of the marriage-alliance, earning her the moniker "Daenerys of Sunspear", which at last united Dorne with the rest of the realm. Since Daenerys of Sunspear did not rule as a queen regnant, Daenerys Stormborn is not called "Daenerys II." When Daenerys Stormborn proclaims herself the rightful heir of the Targaryen dynasty, she is styled officially as "Daenerys of the House Targaryen, the First of Her Name" (Xaro is the first to address her by that title). Daenerys is quite fond of her "Stormborn" sobriquet, however, and frequently substitutes it for "First of Her Name."
According to Missandei, Daenerys's full title is "Daenerys Stormborn of House Targaryen, rightful heir to the Iron Throne, rightful Queen of the Andals and the First Men, Protector of the Seven Kingdoms, the Mother of Dragons, the Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, the Unburnt, the Breaker of Chains." She formerly used the full title of "Queen of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men" alongside her past title of Queen of Meereen.
Daenerys is increasingly referred to as the "Dragon Queen" as her exploits become more famous and the dragons grow, but this is a matter of common parlance and not a title she uses herself.
Kinga Gavalda was a stunt double for Emilia Clarke in the role of Daenerys Targaryen.
The role of Daenerys was originally played by Tamzin Merchant in the unscreened pilot, but the role was recast for the actual series for undisclosed reasons. Elizabeth Olsen auditioned for the role, but her audition went poorly.
Costume Designer Michele Clapton explained the costuming shifts that Daenerys goes through in Seasons 1 to 3. In Season 1, it is obviously a major shift when Daenerys starts to wear Dothraki clothing, showing that she is willing to immerse herself in their culture in a way Viserys never will, and earns reciprocal respect from them as a result. However, as Season 1 progresses, Daenerys later switches to a different outfit - still in Dothraki fashion, but made of tanned crocodile hide. The Dothraki also wear animal skins but use horse-leather. Daenerys put her own Targaryen-themed twist on this by still using leather made from an animal, but from a reptile to evoke her ties to the ancient dragons. In Season 2, Daenerys switches to a Qartheen gown that Xaro provides her, yet she switches into different variants in a subtle progression throughout the season. Initially, Daenerys was awed by Xaro's generosity and Qarth's elegance, but almost at the risk of losing herself: as she increasingly starts to doubt Xaro and become dissatisfied with Qarth in general (as it becomes more apparent that none of them will give her the army she needs), she starts incorporating more and more "Dothraki-style" features back into her outfit. Instead of the completely Qarth-style gown she wore in "Garden of Bones", she starts adding more metal armored pieces or leather, similar to her earlier Dothraki costume.
In Season 3, by the time that Daenerys's ship arrives in Slaver's Bay she has shifted into a new outfit which she retains for most of the rest of the season (alternating with others such as her white gown). In the Season 3 Blu-ray, Clapton explained why Daenerys wears a bright blue dress instead of, say, the traditional Targaryen colors of red and black (which Viserys wore): blue was the color of royalty in Khal Drogo's khalasar. It was the color of the expensive dye that they adorned themselves with, more so on special occasions such as Drogo's wedding. This is comparable to how purple was traditionally the color of imperial or royal authority for centuries in Europe because purple was the most expensive color dye (it could only be made from a rare sea snail). Thus, while in Season 3 Daenerys no longer wears a Dothraki-style "cut" to her outfit, she switched to blue colors as a symbol of her authority as a khaleesi and in memory of Drogo.
Daenerys begins to wear more white as Seasons 4 and 5 progress. Clapton claims the white signifies her mental removal from some of the scenes that she has to be in, such as the fighting pit. It was chaotic and bloody, and she was supposed to be purity in the middle of it all. Therefore was visually removing herself from the things that she disagreed with. Overall, it was how she saw herself. She also plays up her connection to the dragons, with some of her dresses featuring quilting to give the impression of scales, and, since she can now have jewelry made, necklaces and rings in the shape of dragons. Clapton also noted that no matter what color she is wearing, Daenerys always wears Dothraki riding breeches underneath, as experience has taught her that she needs to be prepared for a quick getaway.
Daenerys wears Dothraki clothing again for much of Season 6, but after returning to and securing Meereen, she retains her previous style but wears black instead of white. Black and red are the colors of House Targaryen. Daenerys has rarely worn her House colors since her journey began, so her wearing black now is the ultimate expression of her acceptance of her identity as a Targaryen conqueror and the rightful queen of Westeros.
In Season 7, Daenerys starts off by wearing all black, strong-shouldered gowns. This new style is used to establish her presence and announce her power in Westeros. Clapton states the silhouette of strong shoulders also mirrors that of her brother Viserys. However, it simultaneously represents a dragon with spread wings. Upon her arrival at Dragonstone, her outfit is an altered version of her Season 6 finale dress, however this time there is a collar set over it, and overall includes more elaborate and symbolic design, such as the scaling and hint of red. Throughout the season she also wears a dragon chain across her torso which replaces a crown since she is not a queen yet. At one point, she also has a red sash covered in scales and sometimes has fur piping that is indicative of Westeros' colder climate. When saving Jon Snow, Daenerys wears an outfit completely different from her previous ones; a white, striped fur coat to symbolize her selfless act of rescue, rather than an act of acquiring more power.
Daenerys arrives in Winterfell at the beginning of Season 8 wearing a very similar gown to that where she rescued Jon, however this time it has a red base instead of grey, which ultimately mixes Targaryen and Northern styles, and a split in the skirt, which suits for riding a horse. Also, at one point she has one-sided shoulder fur, which was mainly added because of Daenerys wanting the Northerner's acceptance but was also incorporated as Daenerys was trying to match Jon's silhouette.  However, since it is only draped on one shoulder, she is only partly matching his silhouette, therefore, it is possible that the costumes are hinting Daenerys and Jon have a visual harmony that only works from one angle. Also, the juxtaposition between Jon's dark costume and Daenerys' light costume alludes to both their differences. Throughout the season, her costumes vary by how she feels. For example, whenever she feels alienated or threatened, she reasserts her authority by wearing more of her House colors or the strong-shoulders. Eventually, during the Battle of King's Landing, she wears a bluish, scale-embossed dress with a visible dragon chain, which was (arguably) purposefully hidden behind her hair to hide her conqueror side, accompanied by a red sash, which was also fastened beneath her shoulder instead of above her shoulder, therefore appearing more hidden. So when she attacks the city, she appears a formidable conqueror, however, the dress is unique and symbolizes that she had different intentions.
In the books, Daenerys does not appear to be "fireproof." Martin has stated that her ability to survive Drogo's funeral pyre was a special circumstance, a blood magic ritual involving "fire and blood" - only life can pay for a life, so burning Mirri Maz Duur in the funeral pyre was enough to awaken the life in the dormant dragon eggs. Under normal circumstances, Daenerys is no more immune to fire than any other human. Her brother Viserys once claimed in the novels that Targaryens were a race above other men, immune to both fire and illness - this was blatantly wrong, given that multiple Targaryens in the past are well-known for having burned to death, and many have succumbed to common illnesses over the years (including greyscale). Viserys's comment just highlights how little he knew about Targaryen history (or anything else). It does appear that Targaryens seem to have a slightly higher heat tolerance than average, though: at Illyrio's mansion Daenerys takes a bath in near-scalding hot water, despite the protests of her maidservant, but in the novels, she thinks to herself how pleasant the heat feels (this also happened in the first episode of the TV series). Still, this is nothing outside the normal human range - i.e. any more than centuries of history have shaped the Dornish to be more comfortable in the dry desert heat, or shaped the wildlings to be more accustomed to a cold climate. In fact, when Daenerys rides Drogon out of the Great Pit of Meereen, she is stated to have burns and blisters on her hands from the flames.
The series, however, appears to suggest that Daenerys might, in fact, have some actual fireproofing ability. In addition to the bath scene in "Winter Is Coming", Daenerys doesn't notice the heat from the brazier in "A Golden Crown", and notably, her hands are unburnt, while Irri's are blistered immediately after picking up the egg. It could be argued that she displayed this ability again in "Valar Morghulis", when she has her dragons burn down the House of the Undying, although it's possible that the dragons managed to just aim the fire past Daenerys at Pyat Pree (notice her clothes are intact after this incident). Most glaring, however, is Daenerys's stunt at the Temple of the Dosh Khaleen, from which she emerges again unburnt. In the "Inside the Episode" feature for "Book of the Stranger", Weiss and Benioff imply that Daenerys does indeed have this ability in some fashion, although she only decided to exploit it after Jorah and Daario showed up.
It should be pointed out that even if Daenerys is fireproof in the series, there is no indication that all Targaryens are, as most fire-related deaths the House has suffered are mentioned as being similar to those in the books. This adds another layer to Viserys's death: Daenerys was realizing that heat and fire didn't affect her like they did most people, and (correctly) suspected that Viserys lacked this resistance.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Daenerys was born on the Targaryen island refuge of Dragonstone eight months after her father's death. Her mother died giving birth to her, and a great storm raged at the moment of her birth, destroying what was left of the Targaryen fleet anchored at Dragonstone, giving rise to the nickname "Stormborn." The infant Daenerys and her brother Viserys were spirited into exile across the Narrow Sea by Ser Willem Darry, a loyal retainer of their family, before the castle garrison could hand them over to Robert Baratheon.
In the books, Daenerys is the great-granddaughter of Aegon V, not his granddaughter. The showrunners truncated the Targaryen family line in order to simplify her relationship to Aemon Targaryen. They accomplished this by eliminating the reign of Jaehaerys II and making Aerys II Targaryen the son of Aegon V Targaryen instead of his grandson.
The books go into a little more detail about Daenerys's early life in the Free Cities. Initially, Daenerys lived with Ser Willem and Viserys in Braavos, in a house with a big red door. Ser Willem was old and bedridden and yelled at the servants, but was very kind to Daenerys. After several years, Ser Willem died and the servants drove the Targaryen children from the house, taking what money they had. Daenerys was old enough to remember living in this house and has recurrent dreams about her last sight of the big red door, which came to symbolize the childhood she never had. The house in Braavos was the closest thing to a home Daenerys ever had, but even she never considered herself to be truly home here. Afterward, the Targaryen children bounced around between different patrons, each enjoying having the Targaryen exiles as guests but abandoning them when the novelty wore off. Some briefly entertained the idea of helping them retake the Iron Throne, but as the years passed and Robert Baratheon's rule appeared more and more secure, the number of patrons dwindled and their lives grew meaner. Daenerys grew up living on the sufferance of others, frequently turned out on the street with little warning when their patrons lost interest in them. Viserys was reduced to pathetically begging for support throughout the Free Cities as they moved from patron to patron. In the process, they traveled from Braavos to Myr, then to Tyrosh, then to Qohor, then to Volantis, then to Lys, and ultimately to Pentos (each of the Free Cities except Norvos and Lorath). They never lived in one place for more than a few months, and their stay in Pentos with Illyrio was actually the longest time they had lived in one place since Braavos (for six months in the books, but stated to be over a year in the TV series).
Daenerys does not appear to have a particular religious affiliation in the books. She grew up in the Free Cities, which have a more diverse religious composition than Westeros, so she has been exposed to several different religions but finds them to be confusing. Her final chapter in the third novel (A Storm of Swords - Daenerys VI) begins with an inner narration from her POV in which she ponders aspects of different religions. The Targaryens converted to the Faith of the Seven when Aegon the Conqueror invaded Westeros three hundred years ago, and the ancient Valyrian religion is long extinct. Daenerys's brother Viserys apparently made some effort to explain the basic principles of the Faith of the Seven to her, considering that he hoped they would one day rule again over the Seven Kingdoms, where it is the dominant religion - but Daenerys thinks that the concept of a single god who is split into seven facets is confusing. She is also aware of the Lord of Light religion, given that it is the most popular religion in the Free Cities, but she thinks that its belief in a constant violent struggle between R'hllor and the Great Other to be too violent. Daenerys, therefore, has no particularly strong religious affiliations but is fairly open-minded to the religions of new peoples she meets in Essos. While not outright "converting" to the Great Stallion religion of the Dothraki, after marrying Drogo out of love for her husband's god she finds herself praying to the great horse in the sky at times, even after Drogo's death. Still, Daenerys isn't particularly sure what her personal beliefs are. The TV series doesn't spend much time on this question either: it is only in Season 7 that Daenerys bluntly says that she has faith only in herself and not in any god. The World of Ice & Fire suggests that this was a common attitude amongst the dragonlords of Old Valyria.
Daenerys is thirteen years old when the events of the novels begin. Initially, she is somewhat quiet and reticent, and fearful of her brother's infamous rages, but also curious about life in the Seven Kingdoms and eager to learn more of life there. She has a kind and generous spirit. This spirit slowly begins to harden after her brother's death and after surviving her first assassination attempt.
Unbeknownst to Daenerys, her nephew Aegon Targaryen (son of Elia Martell), the son of Rhaegar and Elia, is alive, as revealed in A Dance with Dragons. They were supposed to meet in Volantis, but Daenerys has decided to remain in Meereen, and Aegon cannot reach her due to the siege. Aegon is initially certain that Daenerys will marry him and give him her armies and dragons for the purpose of conquering Westeros; in contrast to Jon's show character, Aegon does not see anything wrong about marrying his aunt. Tyrion pours cold water on the overconfident youth's hopes, pointing out that his aunt is not some timid little girl who does whatever she is told, but a powerful queen, who has crossed deserts, survived assassins, rallied armies and conquered cities. Tyrion comments that if Aegon appears before her like that (even with the Golden Company), he'll look like a beggar; he advises Aegon to travel to Westeros instead, raise his banners, rally supporters, and then Daenerys will come and meet him as equals. Aegon follows Tyrion's advice; so far, Daenerys has not heard of him. It has yet to be seen how she will react when she finds out she has a living family relative, whose claim to the Iron Throne is stronger than hers.
Daenerys fits the prophecies about "the prince that was promised" and about Azor Ahai (which may refer to the same person) as well:
Details:
Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros was a military effort to conquer the Seven Kingdoms and seize the Iron Throne of Westeros. The war for Westeros ended in victory for Daenerys, but at a great cost of innocent lives.
Robert's Rebellion brought an end to the Targaryen dynasty.
For nearly three centuries since the War of Conquest, the Targaryen dynasty ruled the unified Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. However, the reign of King Aerys II Targaryen, nicknamed the Mad King for his insanity and cruelty, was challenged in the form of Robert's Rebellion. Ultimately, the rebellion saw a rebel victory with Prince Rhaegar's death at the Battle of the Trident and the Mad King's death during the Sack of King's Landing; only the young Prince Viserys and newborn Princess Daenerys survived due to their smuggling across the Narrow Sea to the Free Cities of Essos by loyalists. Robert was crowned king.
Robert's death threw the realm into chaos as civil war erupted in the form of the massive War of the Five Kings. Robert's two brothers, Stannis Baratheon and Renly Baratheon, laid claim to the Iron Throne on the basis that Cersei's children were bastards born of incest with her brother Jaime. Meanwhile, Robb Stark, who had been proclaimed the King in the North, led an independence movement for the North and the Riverlands. Balon Greyjoy once more led an independence movement for the Iron Islands, declaring himself the Iron King.
The War of the Five Kings devastated Westeros both politically and literally, leaving it ripe for conquest.
Each king eventually fell from battle, massacre, or murder. House Lannister now controlled the throne in all but name.
An alliance of supporters of the Targaryen resurgence - and opponents of the Lannister dynasty - is forged.
Dorne formed an alliance with the resurgent House Targaryen, now led by Daenerys, who had three dragons and built up a massive army. Olenna Tyrell joined this alliance, seeking justice for the deaths of her son, Mace Tyrell, and her grandchildren at Cersei's hand. Yara Greyjoy and Theon Greyjoy, with 100 stolen ships of the Iron Fleet and their faction of loyal ironborn, also formed a pact with Daenerys Targaryen to depose their uncle, Euron Greyjoy.
Elsewhere in the North, the Battle of the Bastards saw the restoration of House Stark, where Jon Snow, the alleged bastard son of Eddard Stark, was proclaimed the new King in the North. In actuality, however, Jon is the legitimate son of Eddard's sister, Lyanna Stark, and Rhaegar Targaryen, and thus is the rightful heir to the Iron Throne.
The mythical White Walkers have reawakened, leading an army of the dead.
While the struggle for the Iron Throne rages on in southern Westeros, the Northmen brace for the coming winter - the return of the Long Night - and the Great War against the Army of the Dead.
Daenerys returns to Dragonstone.
For the first time since her storm-ridden birth, Daenerys sets foot on Westerosi ground on the beaches of the ancestral castle-island of House Targaryen, and begins planning the invasion and reconquest of the Seven Kingdoms. In response, Cersei invites King Euron Greyjoy to King's Landing to propose an alliance with him. Euron pressures her to marry him to solidify a potential alliance between the Lannisters and the Greyjoys, but Cersei declines; Euron vows to make Cersei change her mind by bringing her a priceless gift, and leaves with the Iron Fleet to fulfill his promise.
Cersei also summons the lords of the Reach to King's Landing to bend the knee and fight for her against Daenerys.
The Iron Fleet attacks the Targaryen-Greyjoy fleet.
Daenerys sends Yara and Theon to Dorne with Ellaria Sand and the Sand Snakes, so that they can consolidate the Dornish armies and gather the Dornish fleet to besiege King's Landing. In the meantime, she sends her own fleet and her Unsullied led by Grey Worm to conquer Casterly Rock, the ancestral home of House Lannister.
The Targaryen-Greyjoy fleet is ambushed and defeated on the way to Dorne by Euron. Obara Sand and Nymeria Sand are among the casualties, while Ellaria, Tyene Sand and Yara are taken captive, and Theon escapes.
Euron parades his prisoners through King's Landing to the Red Keep.
Euron eventually returns to King's Landing. He presents Ellaria and Tyene to Cersei as a gift, who declares to the gathered court that with his fleet, they will be able to come together and defeat the daughter of the Mad King.
While meeting with Jon, the King in the North, to negotiate an alliance, Varys informs Daenerys that Yara Greyjoy and the Sand Snakes have been captured with their fleet smashed. Nonetheless, Tyrion proceeds with his plan: the Fall of Casterly Rock. The Unsullied army seize to the castle.
The Unsullied attack Casterly Rock.
In the meantime, however, the combined Lannister-Tarly host captures Highgarden.
The Lannister-Tarly army marches on Highgarden.
Having lost most of her allies, as well as a significant chunk of her fleet, Daenerys decides to take matters into her own hands.
The combined Lannister-Tarly army is on its way back to King's Landing, taking with them a massive supply convoy. The gold reserves of Highgarden are successfully sent ahead to King's Landing in secret, as Cersei intends to use them to pay off her debts to the Iron Bank of Braavos, enabling her to hire the Golden Company (the largest sellsword company in Essos) to help enforce her authority.
The Dothraki charge at the Lannister-Tarly army.
As the army briefly stops along the Goldroad near King's Landing, it is ambushed and mostly destroyed by the Dothraki. Only Jaime and Bronn narrowly escape.
Jaime charges at Daenerys and Drogon.
The survivors of the battle, including Randyll and his son, Dickon Tarly, are captured and presented a choice by Daenerys: they can bend the knee and join her in building a better world or die. The majority of the surviving soldiers submit, but Randyll and his son choose death and are executed by dragonfire.
The Battle at the Goldroad undid nearly all the advantages Cersei gained from her previous victories; her armies have been severely reduced and much of the food supplies she needs for the siege have been destroyed, while her allied House Tarly has been effectively put out of the war. Daenerys finally has exhibited the power of her dragons in full force and gained a foothold on the Westeros mainland. Presumably, with the remains of Jaime's army having bent the knee, her Unsullied would be able to link up with the Dothraki and march on King's Landing.
Jaime, having been rescued from drowning in the Blackwater Rush by Bronn, manages to return to King's Landing and inform Cersei of the defeat. Jaime pleads for Cersei to negotiate, but she resolves to fight on.
Tyrion and Jaime Lannister meet in King's Landing.
When Jon receives a message from Bran that the Army of the Dead is marching toward Eastwatch, he says he must return North to prepare their defenses and asks again for Daenerys's help. However, Daenerys is worried that Cersei will take advantage and march back in while they deal with the Army of the Dead. Tyrion proposes a plan that they provide Cersei with proof that the Army of the Dead is real, by showing her a wight as evidence.
To secure a wight to bring to the summit, Jon and six companions venture beyond the Wall for the wight hunt. They capture a wight but are surrounded by the army of the dead. Daenerys comes to their rescue with her three dragons. The Night King kills Viserion and later reanimates the fallen dragon as a wight. Meanwhile, on a Targaryen ship en route to King's Landing for the parley, Jon pledges fealty to Daenerys, declaring her his queen.
The Targaryen and Stark leaders arrive to parley with the Lannisters in the Dragonpit Summit.
The summit is held at the Dragonpit in King's Landing. Jaime and Bronn oversee siege preparations on the battlements of the city walls with the Lannister forces and City Watch, while the forces of House Targaryen - the Unsullied and the Dothraki - line up in formation outside the city gates, commanded by Grey Worm.
Tyrion states they have a common enemy that they must face, requiring a truce. The captured wight is shown to Cersei but is held back by its chain. Realizing that the White Walkers are real, Cersei agrees to a truce with Daenerys, but tells Jon that he must agree to remain neutral when the war to come is won. Jon, bound to the code of honor among Northmen, informs the summit that he has already pledged fealty to Daenerys and cannot be neutral. Cersei declares the meeting over and leaves.
After Cersei reveals her plot to betray the truce, Jaime abandons his sister and rides north.
Tyrion speaks with Cersei in private. She agrees to the truce with the Targaryen and Stark alliance and will send the Lannister armies north to help fight the Great War. However, she secretly conspires with Euron to abandon her new allies with the hope that her enemies slaughter each other, leaving herself unopposed. In response, Jaime decides to abandon his sister.
With this, Daenerys's military campaign is put temporarily on hold until the Army of the Dead is defeated.
Yara is rescued by her brother Theon.
While Euron is in the Red Keep with Cersei, Theon sneaks aboard the Silence and rescues Yara. Yara decides to sail to the Iron Islands with her three remaining ships to take them back in Daenerys's name, while Theon leads a group of ironborn to Winterfell to fight in the Great War.
The destruction of the Night King secured a victory for the living in the Great War.
The Great War is won by the alliance of living armies led by the Great Houses of Stark, Targaryen, and Arryn at the Battle of Winterfell, where the Night King and his army are destroyed. After a massive funeral is held outside Winterfell, Daenerys declares they will now focus on the "last war," taking the Iron Throne from Cersei.
Daenerys's war council plans the future of the war.
Daenerys and her allies hold a war council at Winterfell to plan the taking of King's Landing. Tyrion reiterates that their strategy is to prevent as many innocent civilian deaths as possible. Varys informs the group that Yara has succeeded in taking back the Iron Islands and that the new Prince of Dorne has pledged his support to Daenerys. Daenerys plans to sail back to Dragonstone from White Harbor with Tyrion, Varys, Missandei, Grey Worm, and the Unsullied, now reduced to half their number. Meanwhile, Jon will march south down the Kingsroad with the remaining Dothraki, Northern and the Vale forces.
Approaching Dragonstone, Daenerys and her fleet are suddenly ambushed by the Iron Fleet. The ironborn shoot and kill Rhaegal, damage the Targaryen ships, and capture Missandei. The survivors swim ashore to Dragonstone. Missandei is delivered to Cersei.
Euron's fleet surprise attacks Daenerys.
Daenerys and Tyrion parley with Cersei outside King's Landing but neither side agrees to surrender to the other. Tyrion's attempts to appeal to Cersei's humanity fail, and Cersei has Gregor Clegane behead Missandei to Daenerys's and Grey Worm's devastation. Distraught and angry, Daenerys returns to Dragonstone with her advisors and forces.
The Battle of King's Landing begins shortly thereafter. Jon, Davos, and Tyrion lead the Unsullied, Dothraki, and Northern-Vale armies outside the gates of the capital, where Tyrion informs Jon that if the bells are rung, to call off his men. Their combined forces face the Golden Company led by Captain Harry Strickland. Daenerys arrives on Drogon, burning the Iron Fleet, the city's gate, and the Golden Company, allowing the Targaryen, Stark, and Arryn forces to charge the city. When they meet the Lannister soldiers, the Lannister soldiers surrender. This is followed by the citizens calling to ring the bells in surrender. The bells are rung but, despite this, Daenerys burns the city. Her ground forces follow her lead, including the Northman despite Jon's orders to stop, and attack both the Lannister soldiers and the smallfolk.
The Northmen fight the Lannister soldiers.
Cersei and her entourage are confronted by a vengeful Hound. He and the Mountain fight to death. Cersei reunites with Jaime, who previously killed Euron, but they are trapped beneath the Red Keep and crushed by the falling debris.
Daenerys burns King's Landing on Drogon.
Most of King's Landing is left in ruins from the dragonfire and exploding wildfire, leaving thousands of smallfolk and soldiers dead.
Daenerys delivers a speech to her forces among the ruins of the Red Keep, where she thanks them for honoring their promises to give her the Seven Kingdoms. She says they "liberated" King's Landing and declares that their war is not over as they will "liberate" the entire world from tyrants.
Tyrion tells Jon that despite Jon's love for Daenerys, action must be taken against her to prevent more death and destruction as she has now become the people's greatest threat. He urges a resistant Jon that killing Daenerys is the right thing to do.
The Iron Throne is melted by Drogon.
Jon finds Daenerys in the throne room of the Red Keep, guarded by Drogon. He confronts her over burning down King's Landing, killing thousands of civilians, and executing surrendered forces. Daenerys defends these actions as necessary and Cersei mistakenly thought mercy was her weakness. Jon pleads with Daenerys for a merciful world, but Daenerys is certain her "liberation" plans will build her better world. Unable to dissuade her from more destruction, a heartbroken Jon tells Daenerys that she will always be his queen before reluctantly killing her. Weeping, Jon holds Daenerys in his arms as she dies. Drogon arrives and as he approaches, Jon lays Daenerys's body on the ground. Drogon nudges Daenerys's body and when she does not wake, he faces Jon. As Jon prepares to face his death, an anguished Drogon roars in rage and unleashes his fire on the Iron Throne, melting it. He departs with Daenerys's body as a grieved Jon watches.
The Great Council of 305 AC declares an elective monarchy.
Some weeks later, the high lords and ladies of Westeros gather in the Dragonpit of King's Landing. Tyrion proposes that the gathered nobles choose a king, formally beginning the Great Council of 305 AC. Bran is chosen as the new king. Bran allows Sansa to rule the North independently, turning the Seven Kingdoms into the Six Kingdoms. Bran names Tyrion his Hand of the King to rectify his past mistakes. As a compromise between the Unsullied and the Stark sisters, Bran decides to exile Jon to the Night's Watch. Tyrion delivers the news to Jon, who confides that killing Daenerys does not feel right. His identity as a Targaryen is kept secret.
Jon meets with Sansa, Arya, and Bran one last time, bidding them farewell on a dock in Blackwater Bay. Sansa tells Jon that she wishes there was another way and asks for Jon's forgiveness. Jon hesitates but replies that she made the North independent and is a good choice as its representative. They hug. When Jon invites Arya to see him at Castle Black, Arya tells Jon, Sansa, and Bran that she intends to sail west of Westeros to discover what lies beyond the charted maps. She and Jon share a good-bye hug as well. Jon bends the knee to Bran and apologizes for not being by his side when he needed him, but Bran responds that Jon was exactly where he needed to be. Jon then boards the ship sailing to Castle Black.
Grey Worm and the Unsullied board another fleet, leaving Westeros and sailing for the Isle of Naath, fulfilling Grey Worm's promise to his late lover Missandei to protect her people from slavers and other threats.
As Hand of the King once more, Tyrion reforms the Small Council. Lord Bronn of his own house, who was elevated to Lord of Highgarden and Lord Paramount of the Reach, is named Master of Coin, Lord Davos Seaworth is named Master of Ships, and Samwell is named Grand Maester. Ser Brienne of Tarth also sits on the council as Lord Commander of Bran's Kingsguard.
Jon reaches the Wall as a brother of the Night's Watch once again. There, he reunites with his other brothers as well as Tormund and his direwolf Ghost. Jon, Tormund, and Ghost lead the Free Folk beyond the Wall to resettle the now-thawing snowy lands.
Daenerys's war for Westeros left much of the Seven Kingdoms devastated. Dorne and the Reach descended into chaos for a brief period of time, while countless people were killed by Daenerys's dragons, including Lannister and Tarly soldiers at the Battle of the Goldroad and innocent civilians at the Battle of King's Landing. This wide-scale death and destruction led to Daenerys's assassination and the legal extinction of House Targaryen, though the Targaryen bloodline continues to live on in Jon as the son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark.
Sansa Stark is crowned the Queen in the North.
While the war destabilized and weakened the realm, the fallout from the conflict allowed the remaining leaders of Westeros to peacefully negotiate a resolution, preventing any further civil war for the time being. The Iron Throne was permanently destroyed, and Tyrion declared that the King was to be chosen from Great Councils rather than through bloodline and inheritance. Daenerys's followers left Westeros without any further bloodshed, while Sansa's request for the independence of the North was granted. Upon this, the Seven Kingdoms are reorganized into the Six Kingdoms. This smooth transition of power allows the Westerosi to rebuild their country and introduces the idea of election based on merit at a larger scale in Westeros. In some ways, this fulfills the legacies of Daenerys, Tyrion, Jon, and Varys with her desires to "break the wheel" that allowed the few, powerful noblemen to prey on the many smallfolk.
Daenerys Targaryen at Dragonstone
Daenerys Targaryen claims the Iron Throne on the basis that she is the head of House Targaryen and the rightful heir to the throne, which was initially forged by her ancestor Aegon the Conqueror some three hundred years ago. Rather than immediately divert her attention to Westeros, however, Daenerys instead first launched a campaign to liberate the enslaved populace of Slaver's Bay from the slave masters. Her war to free the slaves ultimately concludes in a victory, and slavery is abolished across the region and its three cities. Leaving the newly-named Bay of Dragons under the guard of her sellsword company, the Second Sons, Daenerys then forges an alliance with House Tyrell, Dorne, and part of House Greyjoy.
Daenerys personally commands a legion of Unsullied heavy infantry (just under 8,000 strong) and hordes of Dothraki light cavalry (just under 100,000), giving her easily the largest army in the entire conflict. House Tyrell and the Dornish, who act in alliance with her and her advisers directly, can field further ground troops (from both the Tyrell army and the Dornish militias) and provide naval support (in the form of the Tyrell-aligned Redwyne Fleet). Her greatest military asset is her three dragons, making Daenerys the only person in the entire known world capable of launching an aerial assault on her enemies. However, Daenerys has suffered a series of defeats, between the assault on the Targaryen fleet, the fall of Casterly Rock and the sack of Highgarden. This results in Daenerys losing many of her Westerosi allies, as well as the detachment of her fleet that transported her Unsullied troops to Casterly Rock, who have taken moderate casualties and are stranded at Casterly Rock. Impatient with the cautious plans that Tyrion had advised her to follow, but still unwilling to harm civilians by burning cities, Daenerys forms a plan of her own and wins a decisive field victory at the Battle of the Goldroad. Following the battle, the surviving Westerosi soldiers bend the knee to Daenerys, increasing her forces. In the aftermath, she reluctantly agrees to negotiate an armistice with House Lannister in order to keep her gains while dealing with the oncoming threat of the army of the dead. Later, Jon eventually bends the knee to Daenerys and they fall in love; by extension, she is also allied with the Vale of Arryn, which has pledged to support the Starks in the Great War.
Yara Greyjoy on the Iron Islands
Yara Greyjoy claims the Salt Throne on the basis that she claims to be the head of House Greyjoy and that her father, Balon Greyjoy, the King of the Iron Islands, wanted her to rule. Her claim to the Salt Throne is supported by her younger brother Theon, but their uncle Euron wins the Salt Throne at a kingsmoot. Yara currently seeks to avenge her father's death at the hands of Euron and to retake the Salt Throne. Yara, Theon, and their portion of the Iron Fleet sails to the Bay of Dragons to seek an alliance with Daenerys Targaryen. As per the terms of their alliance, Yara will be recognized as queen of a sovereign Kingdom of the Iron Islands should Daenerys successfully become the queen, provided the ironborn honor Daenerys's terms and give up all raping, reaving and pillaging.
Being a queen herself, Yara is the highest-ranking of Daenerys's allies. She commands a major portion of the Iron Fleet, which serves as the backbone of the Targaryen allied navy which itself consists of the Redwyne Fleet, a Dornish fleet, and the Targaryen Royal Fleet. However, with her capture at Euron's hand and the almost complete annihilation of her fleet during the assault on the Targaryen fleet, it is likely that the majority of her faction has been wiped out, save for her brother.
Cersei Lannister at her coronation in the Red Keep.
Cersei claims the Iron Throne as successor to her son Tommen I, and is also the current occupant of the throne. The Iron Throne was previously usurped by House Baratheon. However, the dynasty finally collapsed upon Tommen's suicide. With no one to oppose her, Cersei ascended to the Iron Throne, beginning a new Lannister dynasty. The Lannisters had already amassed great power and influence over the Iron Throne during the Baratheon dynasty. Cersei now seeks to preserve the Lannister dynasty and continue to sit atop the Iron Throne.
Cersei's military forces consist mostly of the well-equipped armies of House Lannister, reinforced constantly with fresh recruits from the Westerlands. Originally 60,000 men strong at the start of the War of the Five Kings, this army has been severely reduced by the war and post-war conflicts, leaving her with only around 10,000 men at the start of the invasion, much of which was then decimated by Daenerys's crushing victory at the Battle of the Goldroad. This leaves Cersei with only the City Watch of King's Landing, the remains of the Lannister Army, and what surviving troops she can conscript from the depleted Westerlands and its vassals. House Frey, the Lannisters' most loyal ally since the Red Wedding, has been all but eliminated by Arya, with apparent the death of all Frey heirs, leaving House Frey powerless, and a power vacuum in the Riverlands. The Wardens of the North, House Bolton has gone extinct after the Battle of the Bastards, although ties between House Bolton and House Lannister were seemingly fractured when Ramsay Bolton married Sansa, undermining the plans of the Lannisters in the region. House Arryn, rulers of the Vale who remained neutral during the War of the Five Kings, pledged its forces to the Northern cause. While House Tarly briefly aligned with Cersei, the majority of the Tarly army were killed during the Battle of the Goldroad while Lord Randyll Tarly and his heir Dickon Tarly were executed afterward. Their surviving bannermen (as well as some Lannister bannermen) bent the knee to Daenerys.
Having accepted a marriage agreement from Euron, Cersei acquires over 1,000 Greyjoy ships to serve as her royal fleet. Using the gold plundered from Highgarden, and immediately after making an armistice with Daenerys, Cersei secretly orders Euron to sail to Essos and ferry over the Golden Company, putting 18,000 mercenary infantry and 2,000 cavalry, at her disposal. While she is still badly outnumbered, Cersei intends to use the Golden Company to mop up the remains of whoever wins the Great War – either the Targaryen-North alliance or the army of the dead – and finally reign unopposed. This devious move, however, has cost her Jaime, her greatest supporter and commander of her forces, as he leaves King's Landing to honor his oath to fight the army of the dead. Currently, although none of the southern kingdoms has the strength to fight her (except the Vale of Arryn and possibly Dorne), she only occupies the Crownlands, the Westerlands, and fragments of the Riverlands and Stormlands. However, with the conclusion of the Great War resulting in a victory for the living, Cersei is in a much better position, as not only has the entire army of the dead been eradicated, but the forces of House Targaryen and Stark have suffered severe losses as a result.
Euron Greyjoy on the Iron Islands.
Euron Greyjoy sits the Salt Throne of the Kingdom of the Iron Islands after winning over the ironborn lords and captains at a kingsmoot, promising to conquer all of Westeros for the ironborn with the dragons of Daenerys. Knowing Euron to be a dangerous man, Yara and Theon lead an active resistance faction against him, seeking to install Yara on the Salt Throne as Queen of the Iron Islands. Yara and Theon beat their uncle Euron to Meereen, where they form a pact with the Dragon Queen, who agrees to help them defeat Euron and take back the Iron Islands. Euron seeks the deaths of his niece and nephew so that they cannot challenge his reign.
Euron commands the freshly rebuilt Iron Fleet, crewed by Houses loyal to him. The new fleet is visually impressive and apparently more than a match for any other fleet in the world; he proves his prowess when he strikes a first blow against the Targaryen alliance, destroying the majority of his niece's fleet and captures Yara, as well as Ellaria and Tyene Sand, essentially stripping Daenerys of two of her Westerosi allies. He then ambushes the remainder of the Targaryen fleet at the Fall of Casterly Rock, destroying the armada and stranding the Unsullied.
However, Euron's position has been substantially weakened with Theon's liberation of Yara, who has sailed back to the undefended Iron Islands with her remaining men to take them back from Euron, thus possibly costing Euron his seat. However, he still has a numerical superiority over Yara's remaining forces, and with Theon's death in the Great War, now has one less threat to his rule.
Jon Snow in the crypts beneath Winterfell
Though not a formal combatant, the coronation of Jon as King in the North will likely interfere with Daenerys's military campaign given that she seeks the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms, and the North and the Vale were both under the dominion of the Iron Throne, being two of the seven kingdoms. The Knights of the Vale, led by House Arryn, previously came to aid the Stark-Free Folk army during the Battle of the Bastards. With the deaths of Eddard, Robb and Rickon Stark, as well as the believed death of Bran, the Northern lords named Jon, the bastard of Eddard Stark, their king following his victory against Ramsay Bolton in reclaiming Winterfell and the North from House Bolton. The Starks have eradicated House Bolton and reclaimed Winterfell under the leadership of Jon, who has now been named the new King in the North in defiance of the Iron Throne.
Unbeknownst to all, including Jon himself, however, is the truth of Jon's parentage: he is actually the legitimate son of Rhaegar Targaryen, King Aerys II Targaryen's eldest son who was slain by Robert Baratheon, with Eddard's sister, Lyanna Stark, who died giving birth to Jon at the Tower of Joy in Dorne, thus making him Daenerys's nephew by blood and giving him a stronger claim to the Iron Throne than Daenerys. However, Jon is much more concerned with preparing the defense against the White Walkers in the impending Great War than taking part in any of the strife still gripping the South.
Shortly after her arrival, Daenerys is informed of Jon and his status as King in the North by Melisandre. Though intrigued by Jon's efforts and achievements, she summons Jon to Dragonstone to meet her and "bend the knee". Jon accepts her invitation, but refuses to bend the knee. He asks for Daenerys's help against the Night King as it is a threat to all of humanity. Daenerys declares Jon to be in open rebellion against her and keeps him on Dragonstone. After hearing of her army's casualties at the hands of Euron, Jaime, and Randyll Tarly, Daenerys acknowledges that she may need Jon's help after all, and allows him to mine the dragonglass as a good faith gesture. In the process, Jon discovers cave paintings left behind by the Children of the Forest and the First Men, who fought alongside each other against the White Walkers despite their differences, and implores Daenerys to do the same lest they all die. Daenerys acknowledges the threat and promises to fight for the North if Jon bends the knee, which Jon remains reluctant to do. Around the same time, an attraction grows between Jon and Daenerys, and eventually they fall in love.
After the wight hunt, during which Daenerys's dragon Viserion is killed by the Night King, Daenerys vows to help Jon defeat the Night King. Jon pledges allegiance to Daenerys as his queen, assuring her his people will accept her once they see her personality. Following his public declaration to Daenerys during the parley with Cersei, Jon signs his letters as Warden of the North.
Jon has the re-conscripted forces of the North at his disposal as well as the armies of the Vale of Arryn, which have been left intact during the War of the Five Kings. He is also in alliance with the free folk better known throughout the Seven Kingdoms as "wildlings", who currently occupy the Wall alongside what remains of the Night's Watch.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the plot is far behind the point the show has reached: the battles of Meereen and Winterfell have not begun yet; many characters, who were killed off in the show, are still alive and active (Stannis, the Tyrells, Ser Barristan Selmy, etc.); the show has greatly strayed from the novels, especially in respect of the Dornish plotline, thus it is difficult to predict how the various plotlines progress and combine in the novels, and how the various parties regard Daenerys - if they will choose to ally with or oppose her.
Moreover, a new contender has recently appeared in the last published novel - Daenerys's presumed-dead nephew Aegon Targaryen, the son of Rhaegar and Elia who has the strongest claim to the Iron Throne (since the marriage of Rhaegar and Elia has never been annulled - it is an invention of the TV show), with a significant military force that can seriously affect the balance of forces in Westeros.
Daenerys hasn't attempted to return to Westeros as of the fifth and most recent novel (corresponding to the end of Season 5 of the TV series for her storyline). She is far away from Meereen and her troops, and has just encountered Khal Jhaqo. It is unknown whether she will win over the Dothraki at some point as she did in Season 6.
By the point the fifth novel ends, Stannis's host camps three days away from Winterfell. The battle between Stannis and the Boltons has not begun yet. Stannis's position is by no means as hopeless as in the finale of season 5: he has gained the support of Northern houses, among them the Mormonts, and the Northern mountain clans; the traitor in his host has been exposed and neutralized, thanks to Alys Karstark; the Boltons are in a very inconvenient position. Soon, Stannis will be reinforced by the White Harbor men. In the sample chapter of the sixth novel, it is implied he intends to set a trap to his enemies (perhaps drown them at the frozen lake near the village). Tycho Nestoris meets with Stannis and grants him the funds he needs since the Lannisters refuse to pay the Crown's debt.
In view of how far the show has strayed from the novels, it is not impossible Stannis wins after all, despite the contents of the Bastard Letter. Since he consistently insists that he is the only rightful king of Westeros, it can be assumed he will oppose Daenerys rather than ally with her.
Doran Martell is still alive in the books (his murder by Ellaria Sand in the TV series was a drastic condensation, rather, invention, of the TV series with no basis in the novels). Doran explains to his daughter Arianne that he intends to ally with Daenerys - thus she doesn't even need to conquer a beachhead, as the instant she arrives in Westeros Dorne will revolt against the Lannisters and join her other armies. Doran even sends his elder son Quentyn as an envoy to try to broker a formal alliance, based on the secret pact he signed many years before with Willem Darry (though he is later killed during an attempt to steal one of Daenerys's dragons).
Quentyn's death, however, may cause a rift between Daenerys and the Martells: although it was not her fault, the Martells may become upset at her for rejecting Quentyn's proposal (though she did it very gently). The Martells may decide to support her nephew instead; recently, Doran sent his daughter to meet him, in order to form an alliance against the Lannisters.
Aegon Targaryen, the son of Rhaegar and Elia, accompanied by his guardian Jon Connington and nearly half of the Golden Company, recently arrived at Westeros. They have already conquered the Griffin's Roost and several more castles, and it is reported (but not confirmed yet) that they have seized Storm's End. Connington begins rallying supporters and allies; first, he sends a letter to Doran Martell, informing him that his presumed-dead nephew is alive, and requests his support.
News about the landing of Aegon reaches King's Landing, but Mace Tyrell and Randyll Tarly do not regard this seriously. Conversely, Kevan believes that Aegon and Connington pose a serious threat, especially if Daenerys arrives and joins forces with them. Kevan is murdered by Varys, in order to keep the realm destabilized, which will work in Aegon's favor.
Riverrun has been taken, and currently it is governed by House Frey. However, Brynden Tully has escaped, and there are hints that the Brotherhood - led by the monstrous Lady Stoneheart (the reanimated Catelyn Stark) - plans to attack and massacre the Freys who occupy the castle.
Brienne and Pod, fruitlessly searching for Sansa (who is safe in the Vale), are taken captive by the Brotherhood. In order to save Pod, Brienne reluctantly agrees to Lady Stoneheart's demand to kill Jaime. She meets him at Pennytree, and it seems she is leading him to a death trap.
Asha Greyjoy (called Yara in the show) doesn't go to Meereen in the novels: instead, she flees the Kingsmoot back to her captured holdings in the North, with 4 ships and 200 men only. Her army is nearly destroyed by Stannis in the Second Battle of Deepwood Motte, and she is taken prisoner. Asha and Theon are currently imprisoned at Stannis's camp. Instead, it is her uncle Victarion Greyjoy (cut from the TV series) who takes the Iron Fleet east to Meereen. He has not stolen the fleet, but acted at Euron's command; however, he plans to betray Euron by taking Daenerys and her dragons to himself (possibly by force).
In the TV version, Yara takes Victarion's role, and instead of secretly planning to turn against Euron, openly does so.
The books make explicitly clear that the Iron Fleet isn't the only fleet in the Iron Islands, just their "national fleet" of sorts - the best ships and crews, under direct command of their king. Each of the local houses and isles have their own fleets. Thus in both versions, even though Victarion/Yara took their "best ships", Euron would still have several hundreds of ships left at his command, thus he does not need to build even one ship (let alone 1,000).
In the fourth book, Euron launches a military campaign against the Reach. He has already captured the Shield Islands and the Arbor, and is currently sailing south and east towards Oldtown, on the verge of a massive naval engagement with the Redwyne Fleet (the last major fleet remaining around Westeros after the old Royal Fleet got destroyed at the Battle of the Blackwater). Euron captured his brother Aeron the priest, and is holding him in harsh imprisonment in the bowels of his ship for unknown purpose.
At present, Euron is far away from the Slaver's Bay, yet he is expected to intervene with Daenerys's plotline, based on the prophecies of the Red Priests Benerro and Moqorro about an enemy of Daenerys, described as "a tall and twisted thing with one black eye and ten long arms, sailing on a sea of blood". The earlier novels contained more subtle hints and foreshadowings that Euron was eventually going to be a major antagonist in the war, on the scale of Tywin, Joffrey, Roose, and Ramsay. It is implied that Euron may try to ally with Cersei in the future: given that her actions have totally alienated the Starks to the north and the Tyrells/Martells to the south, Euron is the only other possible extant faction she can ally with. In a preview chapter from the next novel, Euron forces Aeron to drink shade of the evening to give him psychedelic visions, one of which is of Euron seated on the Iron Throne, with a mysterious woman next to him in the shadows, with fire coming from her hands (i.e. how Cersei will use wildfire to destroy the Great Sept). It is also somewhat hinted that Euron has truly gone insane and is in service to some sort of dark demonic powers (either the White Walkers or those beneath the depths), and is a "dark messiah" of sorts for them, intentionally trying to bring about an apocalyptic event.
The Lannisters, meanwhile, are already half-exhausted and bankrupt. Robb Stark have been killed and his army massacred at the Red Wedding, but he inflicted significant losses on the Lannister's main armies before that (at the Battle of the Whispering Wood, Battle of Oxcross, and overall attrition in the protracted Riverlands campaign). Around half of the Lannisters armies' were slaughtered by Robb's forces and they cannot simply replace men as they can swords or ships - their strength has been hobbled for years to come. The Iron Throne is in astronomical debt and the Iron Bank of Braavos has lost faith in them, since Cersei has foolishly refused to pay the debt. The TV version claimed this is because their gold mines ran dry - which is a gross exaggeration and physically impossible. In the books, spending simply outpaced the rate of production (just because they have gold mines doesn't mean they produce infinite amounts of gold). In comparison, the TV series addresses the fact that Cersei's regime is bankrupt in Season 7 - by requisitioning the Tyrell fortune to pay her debts and reintroducing Tycho Nestoris of the Iron Bank.
By the end of the fifth novel, the current state of affairs in King's Landing is definitely in favor of the Tyrells, all of whom are still alive. They have greatly increased their political power at the expense of the Lannisters:
In view of the above factors, the Tyrells, given their military power and Margaery's popularity, can take advantage of Kevan's death and Cersei's downfall, and seize King's Landing; they cannot hope, though, to rule the entire kingdom without any allies and being surrounded by enemies: in the north - Stannis, in the west - ironborn, in the south - Aegon Targaryen and his sellswords. They may decide to ally with the Targaryens, as they did during Robert's Rebellion.
The Destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor has not yet occurred in the current novels, though it is foreshadowed - Cersei takes great delight in burning down the Tower of the Hand with wildfire (but no one is killed). If an event analogous to this occurs in the novels, it cannot possibly kill all of the Tyrells - that is, their many younger cousins and cadet branches, not to mention that Mace has two older sons (Willas and Garlan) cut from the TV series. Thus even if Mace, Margaery, and Loras are killed, the fate of House Tyrell's leadership is unclear. Similarly, the Faith Militant has spread throughout all of southern Westeros, and even a decapitation strike against their core leadership in King's Landing will not eliminate their presence entirely.
Littlefinger's plans have also been drastically altered in the TV series. Littlefinger reveals to Sansa that he plans to wed her to Harrold Hardyng, Robert Arryn's cousin and closest living relative, after Robert dies (he will probably not live to adulthood in view of his poor health - and Littlefinger's actions imply he may have him poisoned). When all the pieces are in place, Sansa will reveal her true identity, and call upon the lords of the Vale to remember their old loyalty to her father Ned. Every knight in the Vale will pledge his sword to win her back her birthright, and she will have it all - Harrold, the Eyrie, and Winterfell. In the process, Littlefinger will vicariously control two of the Seven Kingdoms. He was the true instigator of the entire war, explicitly to dupe the Starks and Lannisters into fighting each other to the point of exhaustion, while keeping the Vale's army out of the war and at full strength to finish off any survivors.
Littlefinger says that he originally thought it would take four to five years for his plans to come to fruition. However, while he always expected Cersei's weak regency over Tommen to crumble from within, he says he didn't anticipate how rapidly Cersei would spiral into self-destruction: arming the Faith Militant, utterly mishandling the debt crisis with the Iron Bank, needlessly antagonizing the Tyrells. This has forced him to speed up his timetable, though he sees this as an opportunity.
Littlefinger cryptically says that whatever peace was left in Westeros after the War of the Five Kings will not long survive the "Three Queens". Sansa is puzzled and doesn't understand what he means: she assumes he is referring to Cersei and Margaery, but doesn't understand who the third queen is (possibly Daenerys, though it's possible he's referring to other women entirely).
Littlefinger hasn't mentioned Stannis in his plans yet, or how his sudden appearance in the North may alter any of his plans. Stannis loathes Littlefinger, and accurately suspected for years during Robert's reign that Littlefinger was a traitor. Stannis may kill Littlefinger if they ever came into contact again rather than ally with him.
For the moment, Littlefinger is strengthening his grip over the lords of the Vale, bribing off old aristocratic families who are deeply in debt (apparently with massive amounts of money he embezzled from the Iron Throne). His entry into the war still seems some way off, so he is focusing on the first step in his plan: his alleged bastard daughter "Alayne" (Sansa) winning over and betrothing Harold Hardyng.
As this conflict has not yet occurred in the novels, it has yet to have an official name. The following names are unsuitable for different reasons:
Therefore, the conflict, and this article, will be named Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros, for the time being.
The Battle of King's Landing was the final engagement of Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros, fought between the Lannister-led forces of Queen Cersei Lannister and the Stark, Arryn and Targaryen alliance force, led by Queen Daenerys Targaryen for control over King's Landing, the capital and largest city of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros and seat of the Iron Throne.
Daenerys Targaryen sought to take the Iron Throne, the center of power from which her house ruled Westeros for 300 years before the Targaryen dynasty was overthrown by Robert Baratheon. Following the end of the Great War, Daenerys resumed hostilities with Cersei. Cersei reinforced her troops by allying with Euron Greyjoy and hiring the Golden Company.
After the parley with Cersei failed, Daenerys and her allies rallied their troops for assaulting King's Landing.
Prior to the battle, Tyrion convinced Daenerys to not attack the city if the bells were rung, signaling a surrender. Cersei fortified the city walls, while having Euron deploy the Iron Fleet in Blackwater Bay. In the early hours of the day of the battle, the Hound and Arya Stark, having ridden south from Winterfell in hopes of preemptively killing Gregor and Cersei, managed to infiltrate the castle.
Jon, Davos, Tyrion, and their armies face off the Golden Company.
Sailing from Dragonstone and marching from the Kingsroad, Jon, Davos, and Tyrion consolidated the Unsullied, Dothraki, and Northern-Vale forces outside the gates of King's Landing. Captain Harry Strickland, commander of the Golden Company, led his forces outside the city walls to face off the combined Targaryen, Stark, and Arryn forces.
In the opening act of the battle, Daenerys ambushed the Iron Fleet on Drogon while the fleet was still preparing for attack. Nosediving towards the fleet with the sun at her back, the tactic prevented the Iron Fleet from initially spotting Drogon as he closed in for the attack. Having learned from her earlier engagement with the fleet, Daenerys directed Drogon to fly fast and low to make it difficult for the ships to accurately target him. In the ensuing attack, the Iron Fleet was completely decimated, with the ironborn unable to strike the dragon as Drogon laid waste to dozens of ships with dragonfire. Euron himself barely survived the assault by managing to jump into the sea before his ship was destroyed. With the Iron Fleet all but destroyed, Daenerys and Drogon proceeded towards the city proper, destroying the Lannister forces manning the Scorpions on the ramparts.
While the Targaryen, Stark, and Arryn forces continued to have an uneasy standoff with the Golden Company outside the city walls, Daenerys directed Drogon to the front gates, catching the defenders completely by surprise by destroying the gate in a fiery blast that shattered the Golden Company's lines and created a breach into the city. The Targaryen, Stark, and Arryn forces proceeded to charge forward in the ensuring confusion amongst the defenders. Harry Strickland, having been thrown from his horse from the attack, managed to recover, but was struck down by Grey Worm as he attempted to retreat into the city.  The Dothraki were the first to enter the city, cutting through the still-recovering Lannister and preventing them from recovering fast enough to create a proper defense. The Northmen and Unsullied were close behind, mopping up the stunned Lannister forces as they poured into the city. Meanwhile, Daenery annihilated most of the Golden Company as they attempted to futilely flee from Drogon's dragonfire.
Jon leads the Northmen and knights of the Vale into King's Landing.
As the Targaryen, Stark, and Arryn forces battled the Lannister forces in the city, Daenerys and Drogon continued to strafe the city walls, destroying the remaining scorpions. Watching from the Red Keep, Cersei remained in utter denial of her increasingly dire situation even as Qyburn informed her of the loss of the Iron Fleet and Golden Company, destruction of all the anti-dragon ballistae, and breaching of the city gates.
As the fighting escalated, Jon, Davos, Grey Worm and the bulk of their forces march down the main street of King's Landing, cutting down attacks from Lannister soldiers along the way. They soon joined up with a group of Northmen in a standoff with a large Lannister contingent. With the last of the scorpions destroyed, Daenerys landed Drogon on a nearby roof, intimidating the remaining Lannister soldiers and small folk.
Realizing that the battle and war was lost, the Lannister soldiers dropped their weapons and surrendered, while the people of the city began to cry for the bells to be rung. Jon and Tyrion were relieved at the quick surrender, while Cersei watched in disappointment as both her soldiers and people turned on her, their cries for surrender echoing throughout the city. The bells soon began ringing, signaling that the battle had come to an end with a relatively bloodless Targaryen victory.
In a culmination of her accumulated grief and rage from the losses sustained in her campaign for Westeros, Daenerys furiously stared at the Red Keep, the former symbol of her family's power that was now held by her hated enemy. Unable to accept her easy victory, Daenery succumbed to the infamous Targaryen madness, rejecting the city's surrender in a terrifying turn of events as she unleashed Drogon on a destructive rampage across the city. Tyrion watched in horror from beyond the city's burnt walls as Drogon strafed through the city, destroying countless buildings and incinerating tens of thousands of fleeing smallfolk and surrendered Lannister soldiers with dragonfire. Following Daenerys's lead, Grey Worm rejected the Lannister surrender as well by hurling a spear at one of the Lannister soldiers, triggering the Targaryen, Stark, and Arryn forces to begin sacking the city. Jon attempted to stop the massacre by ordering his men to stand down. However, the men of the North were consumed by hatred for the actions of House Lannister (the Execution of Eddard Stark, the War of the Five Kings, the Red Wedding, Roose and Ramsay Bolton's rule, and Cersei's treachery in the fight against the dead) and refused to show mercy. In the ensuing chaos, Jon and Davos were separated, and Jon was forced to kill one of his own men when said man attempted to rape a woman. Meanwhile at the Red Keep, Cersei watched the unfolding carnage in mute horror and shock as Daenery and Drogon flew towards the Red Keep, directly striking the castle with dragonfire. Despite the deteriorating situation, Cersei remained defiant until Qyburn convinced her the battle was lost and that the Red Keep had been breached by the Unsullied, advising Cersei to retreat to the (relative) safety of Maegor's Holdfast.
Wildfire caches erupt from the dragonfire.
Across King's Landing, the wildfire caches placed beneath the city by the Mad King, begin to ignite and explode, triggered by the dragonfire. As the city began to be consumed by an ever-growing conflagration, countless civilians died as they were crushed by collapsing buildings, burned from exploding wildfire or Drogon's dragonfire, or massacred by Daenerys's forces. With the situation rapidly deteriorating, Davos began evacuating civilians, while Jon - witnessing the ever-increasing danger of the battle and horrified by Daenerys's brutality - ordered the Stark and Arryn forces to begin a retreat from the city.
The Clegane brothers duel each other to the death.
Towards the battle's climax, Daenerys and Drogon continued to make several devastating strafe runs across the city as well striking the Red Keep, partially destroying the Great Hall and several of the castle's towers. Meanwhile, Arya and the Hound manage to infiltrate the Red Keep, but before they could proceed with their mission, Sandor convinces Arya to turn back, warning her that if she goes further down her path for murder and vengeance, she'll end up like him. Arya heeds Sandor's advice and the two bid farewell for the last time as Arya rushes out of the Red Keep. Meanwhile, as Cersei, Qyburn, Ser Gregor and her Queensguard attempt to make their way to Maegor's Holdfast, Sandor intercepts them. Sandor effortlessly dispatches Cersei's remaining Queensguard before proceeding to taunt his brother, breaking Cersei and Qyburn's hold over Gregor as he moves to confront Sandor. When Qyburn orders Gregor to obey Cersei, the Mountain smashes his skull while Cersei flees. The Clegane brothers proceed to duel one another as Drogon continues to ravage the Red Keep, with Sandor knocking off Gregor's helmet and revealing his undead appearance. The Mountain is able to survive the Hound's fatal attacks and pushes him against a wall, severely beating him before attempting to crush his eyes, but the Hound repels him by stabbing him in the head before tackling him through a wall, with the two brothers falling hundreds of feet to their deaths into the flames below. Meanwhile, Arya continued to make her way out of the King's Landing, fleeing from collapsing buildings and attempting and failing to save civilians from the escalating carnage along the way. Arya barely survives herself as she narrowly avoids being caught up in one of Drogon's strafe runs, knocking her unconscious.
Jaime reunites with Cersei.
In the midst of the battle, Jaime goes around the Red Keep using a secret passage, but is confronted by Euron, having swam ashore after the destruction of his fleet. The two proceed to engage in a brutal melee. At the climax of their duel, Euron fatally stabs Jaime multiple times, but Jaime ultimately overpowers Euron and runs him through with his sword, killing him. Jaime then rushes to his sister, finding her in Maegor's Holdfast as the Red Keep begins crumbling around them. Comforting her, the two rush down to the crypts beneath the Red Keep where the dragon skulls are kept to make their escape. As the make their way through the crypts, the duo find that their exit to the boat has been blocked off by debris. Realizing the futility of their escape, Cersei desperately pleads with her brother to save her and their child. Jaime instead embraces her as the devastated Red Keep collapses on top of them.
Arya Stark awakens to the carnage of the dead city.
An indeterminate amount of time after the conclusion of the battle, a stirring Arya wakes up in rubble, covered in ash, blood, and debris, having been unable to save anyone despite her many attempts. As she observes her surroundings, she sees an apocalyptic scene: burnt out or collapsed buildings lining streets filled with countless bodies of people turned to ash where they were. Out of the lifeless ruins that was once King's Landing, she finds an unexpected survivor, Harry Strickland's horse, which she uses to ride out of the ruined city. Daenerys later orders Grey Worm and the Unsullied to begin executing everyone who followed Cersei, including surrendered Lannister soldiers.
The remains of the Red Keep following the battle.
The casualties during the battle were immense. Including Lannister soldiers and innocent civilians, the death toll likely reached tens, if not hundreds of thousands, making the battle one of the deadliest in Westerosi history. Catastrophic damage had been rendered to large sections of King's Landing due to Drogon's multiple dragonfire strafe runs. Combined with the ignited caches of wildfire, it is likely huge swaths of the city were destroyed in the resulting firestorm. The degree of destruction had been so intense that ash precipitated onto the city in significant quantities (enough to partially bury a sleeping Drogon) in the hours and days following the battle and even partially blotted out the sun.
Ironically, Daenerys did to the city, under the Lannisters' rule, the same thing that the Lannisters had done to the city under the Targaryens' during the Sack of King's Landing, albeit in a disproportionately more violent and destructive manner.
Daenerys stands over the ruins of King's Landing.
In the aftermath of the battle, Daenerys seizes control over what little remains of King's Landing, occupying the city with her armies. She then had both the Unsullied and the Dothraki assemble in the courtyard of the Red Keep before arriving at the ruin castle to address them both. As Jon and Tyrion look on solemnly behind her, Daenerys delivered a victory speech to the remaining Dothraki and Unsullied, declaring the sack of King's Landing a success. She congratulates the Dothraki on delivering her the Seven Kingdoms. She then praises the Unsullied and calls her forces 'liberators' for 'freeing' the people of King's Landing. Daenerys then promotes Grey Worm as the Commander of all her forces and her Master of War. Continuing on, Daenerys declared her intent of continuing to break the wheel, enlisting her army to embark on a conquest of not only the rest of Westeros, but all of the known world, to the shock and horror of both Jon and Tyrion.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, an equivalent event has not occurred. The TV show has surpassed the timeline of the books, two of which are yet to be published, so it is unclear if such an event will occur.
In "A Storm of Swords", Qyburn tells Jaime how Tyrion set the Blackwater on fire. That reminds Jaime of a dream he had about "green flames reaching up into the sky higher than the tallest towers, as burning men screamed in the streets". Perhaps this is a foreshadowing of the battle, if it ever occurs in the novels.
The assassination of Daenerys Targaryen is a pivotal and closing event of Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros. Following Daenerys Targaryen's destruction of a surrendered King's Landing, in which hundreds of thousands of innocents were slaughtered, Jon Snow reluctantly kills her, to prevent more massacres and destruction.
Daenerys stands over a ruined King's Landing.
Daenerys, who gradually succumbs to the Targaryen madness, initially agrees to Tyrion's proposal that they give the people of King's Landing a chance to surrender. However, at the Battle of King's Landing, she burns down the city even after the Lannister soldiers surrender. King's Landing is destroyed by the dragonfire of Drogon and the wildfire caches placed beneath the city by Daenerys's father, King Aerys II, with thousands of smallfolk and surrendered soldiers dead.
Jon, Davos, and Tyrion walked through the city in the aftermath, stunned and dismayed by the amount of destruction and death caused by their queen. Daenerys delivers a speech to her Dothraki and Unsullied forces, declaring the sack of King's Landing a success. Daenerys tells them all that they "liberated" King's Landing, "You tore down their stone houses, you gave me the Seven Kingdoms." She declares their war is not over, proclaims her intention to conquer the world and put an end to the rule of all tyrants, breaking the wheel for good. Before them all, Tyrion disgustedly confronts Daenerys for slaughtering an entire city; he is subsequently arrested by Daenerys.
Jon visits Tyrion, who warns the former about what Daenerys has become. As Jon struggles with this, Tyrion reasons, "I know you love her. I love her too, not as successfully as you, but I believed in her with all my heart. Love is more powerful than reason." Jon reflects, "Love is the death of duty." Tyrion tells Jon that he is the shield that guards the realms of men, who tries to protect people, "Who is the greatest threat to the people now?" Tyrion acknowledges he is asking Jon to do a terrible thing, "But it is also the right thing." Due to his love for Daenerys, Jon doesn't think he can do it. Tyrion reminds Jon that his sisters will never kneel for Daenerys.
Jon Snow holds the body of Daenerys Targaryen.
Daenerys walks in to the ruins of the throne room, seeing what she saw in the House of the Undying years ago. She approaches the Iron Throne, reaching out to touch it when she is found by Jon, who confronts her over burning down King's Landing, killing thousands of men, women, and children, and executing surrendered Lannister prisoners. Daenerys defends her actions, claiming they were necessary. Jon pleads with Daenerys to forgive Tyrion and all of the people of King's Landing, to make them see they are mistaken about her. Daenerys says she can't hide behind small mercies, "The world we need won't be built by men loyal to the world we have." Jon says they need a world of mercy, but Daenerys believes her actions are the way they build a good world. Distressed, Jon asks Daenerys how she knows it's good and questions, "What about everybody else? All the people who think they know what's good?" Daenerys simply responds, "They don't get to choose." Embracing Jon, Daenerys asks him to be by her side and to build her new world together. As the two kiss, a greatly anguished Jon tells Daenerys that she will be his queen forever, before he stabs her in her heart with his dagger.
Weeping, Jon holds Daenerys in his arms as she dies. While he cradles her body, Drogon flies into the throne room. As Jon prepares to face death via Drogon's flames, Drogon roars in anger and grief and unleashes his fire across the throne room, melting the Iron Throne. He does not kill Jon, but instead picks up Daenerys's corpse and flies away, leaving a grieving Jon behind.
Jon's assassination of Daenerys, nearly identical to the way the Mad King had been slain, had officially marked the legal extinction of House Targaryen. Moreover, Daenerys' death had infuriated the Unsullied and Grey Worm has Jon taken prisoner for both treason and regicide. In the coming weeks, despite the death of their queen, the Unsullied continued to remain in power over King's Landing. Some time later, a gathering of the great Westerosi lords and ladies is held at the Dragonpit, to decide Jon's fate, Tyrion included . Grey Worm along with Yara Greyjoy, one of Daenerys' loyalists, want Jon executed, while Sansa and Arya wanted to pardon him. Tyrion then proposes that they leave it for the new king or queen to decide that fate, and suggests that the gathered leaders choose the next king or queen. In the Great Council of 305 AC, Jon's maternal cousin Bran Stark is chosen as king, and Tyrion declares that from now on, the king will be chosen by a gathering of the lords and ladies instead of inheriting the crown by bloodline, which, in some ways, "breaks the wheel" that Daenerys intended - that of hereditary rule.
Later, Tyrion informs an imprisoned Jon that Bran sentenced him to the Night's Watch for life in order to appease Grey Worm and the Unsullied. Jon bleakly wonders if he did the right thing and that it didn't feel right. In response, Tyrion tells Jon to ask him again in ten years. They bid each other farewell for now and Jon rides north of the Wall with the remaining Free Folk and Ghost.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, an equivalent event has not occurred. The TV show has surpassed the timeline of the books, two of which are yet to be published, so it is unclear if such an event will occur.
The Great Council of 305 AC took place following the Assassination of Daenerys Targaryen, and was originally convened to decide the fates of Tyrion Lannister and Jon Snow. With no monarch to render a verdict, the council was made up of the heads of each surviving Great House of Westeros, along with other key players from the Battle of King's Landing.
Following the assassination of Daenerys, both Jon and Tyrion were kept as prisoners by the Unsullied, soldiers loyal to Daenerys Targaryen and her cause, and who continued to control King's Landing after its sacking. When news of the events reached Sansa Stark in Winterfell, she journeyed south with her brother Bran and her sworn sword, Brienne of Tarth. Samwell Tarly, who was last seen at Winterfell with Gilly and her son, also journeyed south. Other lords and ladies had arrived in King's Landing as well to discuss the fate of Jon and Tyrion, and to decide the political future of Westeros.
When Tyrion Lannister was presented before the council, the Unsullied kept Jon Snow imprisoned, wanting to punish him themselves. Sansa Stark threatened the Unsullied with war if they attempted to harm Jon, to which their leader Grey Worm responded in equal measure. Yara Greyjoy, Lady of the Iron Islands and a Daenerys supporter, favored the Unsullied's view, but Arya Stark threatened to kill Yara for even talking about hurting Jon. The situation was defused by Davos Seaworth, but even he was unable to convince Grey Worm to let Jon go. Tyrion said that only the ruler of the Seven Kingdoms could deliver such justice, to which Grey Worm agreed.
Daenerys's assassination had left the realm without a clear leader. Although this had essentially been the case for the previous six years - with the War of the Five Kings and the other conflicts that came afterwards - the near-extinction of three Great Houses (Targaryen, Baratheon, and Lannister) had created huge uncertainty about who should inherit the throne.
Members of the Great Council proposed three options for settling the succession:
Despite the support gained for Brandon Stark, his sister Sansa was the only assembled member who did not immediately accept his crown. Saying that the Northmen had suffered too much to ever accept the rule of an outsider again (as could well happen in the future with an elective monarchy), she demanded that the North once again become its own sovereign kingdom, "as it was for thousands of years." This was granted by Brandon, who was thereafter hailed as Bran the Broken, First of His Name, King of the Andals and the First Men, Lord of the Six Kingdoms, and Protector of the Realm.
The notion of independence for the Kingdom of the North had been a prevailing issue for many years, ever since Joffrey Baratheon beheaded Lord Eddard Stark, and Eddard's eldest son Robb Stark was forced to raise his banners in rebellion. Due to his purported illegitimacy, Joffrey's claim to the throne was contested, but the northerners did not wish to support the claims of either Stannis or Renly, the late King Robert Baratheon's brothers. Instead, they crowned Robb King in the North, and declared themselves a free and independent kingdom.
The remaining members of House Stark. Left to right: Arya, Bran, and Sansa.
Robb Stark's war for independence would be successful until he broke his betrothal with Roslin Frey to marry Talisa Maegyr, a Volantene noblewoman whom he had met on the campaign. As a result, Lord Walder Frey (Roslin's father) orchestrated the Red Wedding with Tywin Lannister, a successful massacre of the northmen that dined within his halls when Edmure Tully was married to Roslin instead. Both Robb and his mother Catelyn Stark were killed, intensifying the Stark-Lannister blood feud. Following the Red Wedding, Roose Bolton was named Warden of the North, replacing the Starks and earning the loathing of many northern Houses, whose banners had been pledged to the Stark cause.
Roose would later be murdered in a conspiracy by his legitimized bastard son, Ramsay Bolton, who would continue to rule the North through fear tactics and brutal violence. Eventually, Jon Snow -- the purported illegitimate son of Ned Stark -- and Sansa Stark marched south from Castle Black to take back Winterfell. The bulk of Jon's forces consisted of the Free Folk, and he had only managed to obtain the support of House Mormont as well as other minor Houses, as larger Houses were unwilling to fight alongside wildlings.
With the threat of the Army of the Dead looming, Jon Snow, crowned King in the North by the Northern lords, sought an alliance with Daenerys, with whom he quickly fell in love. From Dragonstone, Jon brought Daenerys and her forces back to Winterfell in preparation for the war against the dead after pledging allegiance to Daenerys as queen.  However, the northerners still maintained a residual distrust of House Targaryen after the brutal torture and murder of Brandon Stark and Rickard Stark by Daenerys's father twenty years prior. After the Great War, both the northmen and Daenerys's forces suffered great casualties. Because the North became a vassal to Daenerys when Jon bent the knee to her, their forces were pledged to help her take the Iron Throne from Cersei Lannister. Daenerys opted to take the Iron Throne from Cersei immediately against Sansa's advice that they wait a period of time until their forces had recovered.
Eventually, after the Battle of King's Landing and the conclusion of the Great Council, Brandon Stark's selection as King of the Andals and the First Men would finally allow Sansa to achieve legal independence for the North as a recognized polity, free from what was now the Six Kingdoms.
Tyrion Lannister as the prisoner of Grey Worm.
Both Tyrion and Jon had recently been convicted of crimes, and the council was originally convened to decide their punishments: Tyrion had been arrested on the orders of the late Daenerys for treason, due to freeing his brother from the Unsullied's custody; Jon was imprisoned for assassinating Daenerys, following her razing and massacre of King's Landing; she had stated in her victory speech that she would do the same in future conquests around the known world, and he was attempting to prevent further massacres. Grey Worm, commander of the Unsullied and one of Daenerys's greatest supporters, was particularly keen to see them both executed.
Jon is informed by Tyrion of his exile to the Night's Watch.
After Brandon Stark was named king by his peers, he pardoned Tyrion and named him Hand of the King (a position Tyrion had previously held under Joffrey Baratheon and Daenerys herself). Grey Worm protested against this, and Tyrion initially rejected the position, saying that he had made too many mistakes in the past to be useful or worthy of the post. Bran acknowledged this, and made it clear that as his Hand, Tyrion would spend the rest of his life fixing the mistakes he made. Jon was later exiled to the Wall as a member of the Night's Watch, in order to prevent a war between the Unsullied and Jon's supporters. Grey Worm accepted this punishment for him, as did Sansa and Arya.
Tyrion as Hand of the King, following his pardon.
Under the rule of Brandon Stark, there was much to be rebuilt and reorganized across Westeros: Ser Bronn of the Blackwater, a former sellsword and close companion of both Tyrion and Jaime, was named Lord Paramount of the Reach and Lord of Highgarden, fulfilling the reward of his own castle that had long been promised to him by the Lannisters. Tyrion was allowed to remain as Lord of Casterly Rock, a title that his father, Tywin, had disinherited him from on account of his dwarfism and promiscuity. Daenerys had already granted independence to Yara and the Iron Islands, and as Robin Arryn and the Prince of Dorne had supported Bran's ascension to the throne, it can be assumed that they remained the rulers of their respective regions and did not make any bids for independence on a similar note to Sansa, despite their long-standing divisions with the throne.
In addition to Tyrion's appointment as Hand of the King, the following nobles were granted seats on the Small Council by Brandon:
The Small Council informed Brandon that they would present him with suitable candidates for the positions of Master of Whisperers, Master of Laws, and Master of War. Both the North and the Kingsguard came to possess their first female leaders, with Queen in the North Sansa Stark enjoying great harmony with the south on the account of her and Bran's kinship. This put an end to the long-standing rivalry between the two realms proliferated by the War of the Five Kings. Brandon's reign also saw the induction of Podrick Payne as a knight of the Kingsguard.
It was the first formal election of an absolute monarch in the history of Westeros (although different methods of deciding succession had been debated by other Great Councils in the past), and saw the reorganization of the Seven Kingdoms into an elective monarchy.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, no equivalent event has occurred, although several Great Councils have occurred before the books' events. The TV show has surpassed the timeline of the books, so it is unclear if an equivalent event will occur.
The North is the principal region of the Kingdom of the North. It was formerly one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms after the Targaryen conquest, but seceded during the War of the Five Kings under King in the North Robb Stark. Following the Red Wedding, the North returned to the jurisdiction of the Iron Throne under House Bolton. After House Stark regained control of the region, the North once again seceded under Jon Snow, who later pledged the North to Queen Daenerys Targaryen in exchange for House Targaryen's aid during the Great War. It was finally allowed to become independent again by Bran Stark following Daenerys Targaryen's war for Westeros.
Travelers in the North, with the castle of Winterfell in the distance.
Map of the continent of Westeros, marking the location of the North in red.
The North is ruled from the castle of Winterfell by House Stark. It is the largest of the nine major regions of the continent, almost equal in size to the other eight combined. Its total population is under one million. The North is also considered the poorest region of the Seven Kingdoms.
According to legend, the Kingdom of the North was established eight thousand years ago by Bran the Builder, the founder of House Stark, who constructed the Wall as a shield against the possible return of the White Walkers. The North is the only region where the First Men were able to successfully resist the Andal Invasion, six thousand years before the War of the Five Kings. As a result the North is the only region of Westeros in which the ethnic makeup is predominantly First Men, and the only region where the culture, customs, and traditions of the First Men still predominate. Among these is the belief that the man who passes the sentence of death must swing the sword himself. In particular, the religion of the First Men, the worship of the Old Gods of the Forest, is still the dominant faith in the North. The Faith of the Seven introduced in southern Westeros by the Andals has found little foothold in the North. As a result, warriors from the North are not "knights" (with very few exceptions), because "knighthood" is a code of values associated with the Faith of the Seven. However, mounted warriors are still an honored and esteemed military asset in the North, so that while northmen like Ned Stark may not carry the title "Ser", Northern cavalry are functionally equivalent to mounted knights.
Bastard children of noble blood born in the North are given the surname Snow. People of the North are known as Northmen (or Northerners), and, derogatorily as wolves, in reference to the sigil of House Stark.
The borders of the North are held to be the Sunset Sea to the west and the Shivering Sea to the east, the Wall to the north and the hills and bogs of the Neck to the south. Greywater Watch and its ruling house, House Reed, are the southernmost noble family owing fealty to Winterfell. Likewise, Last Hearth and its ruling House, House Umber, are the northernmost noble family sworn to Winterfell. Beyond Last Hearth comes the lands of the Gift under the control of the politically neutral Night's Watch and eventually the Wall itself.
In the northwestern coast of the North is the large Bay of Ice in the Sunset Sea. Bear Island, the seat of House Mormont, is in the central portion of the bay. The southern coast of the Bay of Ice is just north of the large forested Wolfswood. The peninsula Sea Dragon Point is surrounded by the bay. In the northeastern coast of the North lies the Bay of Seals in the Shivering Sea. The large and remote Skagos and the smaller Skane are both in the bay as part of an island group all considered parts of the North.
The climate of the North, though harsh overall, varies from cool (maritime) temperate around the Neck, to cold temperate around Winterfell, and to subarctic at the Wall. The lands south of Winterfell leading to the Neck are almost as fertile as the Riverlands to the south, and are the most agriculturally productive region of the North. The Neck itself is filled with swamps. Snowfall generally increases as one moves north along the Kingsroad.
Robb Stark's Northern armor.
Northerner soldiers are distinguishable from other soldiers, and they are renowned of being fierce warriors. The most distinguishable feature of the Northerners’ armor is the leather reinforcements on their uniforms. For instance, Stark soldiers wear studded leather over their mail and padding, Bolton soldiers were boiled leather tunics over their mail, and the Mormont soldiers equip themselves with leather jerkins. The North is not as wealthy as the other regions, thus steel plate armor is rare with only a few Houses, like House Glover, being able to afford it. However, some nobles can afford many plate armor parts, (like Robb Stark) and in rare occasions whole suits of expensive plate (like Jorah Mormont).
Due to the North's vast size, gathering the full military strength of the Starks and their vassals is a difficult process, requiring months of travel time and the ability to supply and feed the host even before it sets out.
For this reason, the 18,000 men Robb Stark takes south to confront the army of the Westerlands is not the full strength of the North, only what could be assembled at relatively short notice. The forces left to guard were unknown, but main castles like Winterfell and Dreadfort were able to rise a few hundreds men with ease.
By the time of the Battle of the Yellow Fork, however, the Stark army is allied with House Tully and their vassals, including House Frey, so it is estimated that their force is even or greater than the Lannister army.
During the Red Wedding, almost the entire Northern army present at the Twins is annihilated, with anyone who manages to escape the massacre being hunted by House Frey. While Houses Bolton and Karstark remain mostly unscathed and represent half of the manpower in the North with the Umbers, the only possibility of military support to the scattered heirs of House Stark comes from the remaining garrison and levies of other northern houses, provided they do not bend the knee to the new Warden of the North, Roose Bolton.
During the conflict beyond the Wall, Jon establishes an alliance between the Night's Watch and at least 2,000 Free Folk. With his temporary death freeing him from his vows, and the wildlings still loyal to him, the wildlings are now unofficial Northern soldiers. Jon and Sansa convince some of the smaller houses to unite around them, giving them 2,405 men. During the Battle of the Bastards, the Starks and their allies came close to total destruction; they were saved by the intervention of a sizable army from the Vale of Arryn led by Sansa and Petyr Baelish.
Shortly after the Battle of the Bastards, Jon and Sansa treat with all the Northern Lords and the Lords of the Vale. Lyanna Mormont declares Jon the King in the North and is soon followed by Wyman Manderly, Robett Glover, Cley Cerwyn and the rest of the Northern Lords.
At Dragonstone, Jon laments to Davos that the entire combined strength of arms in the North at this point (including old men and green boys) is probably fewer than 10,000 men. While it is not specified, it is possible that the North possesses several ships, as Jon uses one for his voyage from White Harbor to Dragonstone.
During the Battle of Winterfell, half of the Northern army is obliterated. The Northern forces later partake in the Battle of King's Landing alongside the Vale and Targaryen troops, apparently not taking significant losses.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the North is an area vast in size but relatively light in population. The North, due to its location, is particularly badly affected during the long winters, with thousands of people killed and famine not an uncommon occurrence due to the inability to raise crops for years on end, outside of special greenhouses and castles built on or near hot springs, like Winterfell, or volcanic vents, like the Dreadfort of House Bolton.
The people of the North, popularly called "northmen" or "northerners", are known as a hardy, tough breed who hold the comforts of the warm, "soft" south in disdain. They worship the old gods of the forest, and the "new gods" of the Andals have made little headway in the North. With a few exceptions, the warriors of the North refuse to take holy orders and thus cannot become knights.
Some of the northmen live in remote, distant areas where they act little more as clans and tribes of savage warriors. Even these remote folk are vassals of the Starks, however, and are allowed to maintain their own ways and traditions as long as they remain loyal to Winterfell - which most of them usually do, as the Starks have a history of being just and honorable rulers. The Starks treated the mountain clans with respect by referring to them as if they were small-scale noble houses, i.e. calling them "House Wull" and "House Norrey", instead of dismissively thinking of them as lowly "clans".
Characters in the novels frequently remark that the North is almost as large as the rest of the Seven Kingdoms put together (a remark repeated in the TV series).  In the World of Ice and Fire sourcebook (2014), the in-universe author Maester Yandel explains that while this is a very common saying, maesters have conducted fairly accurate land surveys over the centuries, which have revealed that the North is actually closer to about one third of the total land area of the Seven Kingdoms, not one half.
The Kingdom of the North is the name given to an independent realm that controls the northern territories of the continent of Westeros, north of the Six Kingdoms. It is named after the North, one of the nine distinct regions of Westeros and the largest and most prominent in the kingdom. The kingdom is ruled by the King or Queen in the North, typically the head of House Stark, from their seat at Winterfell.
The kingdom was first founded by Brandon the Builder after the Long Night, but was conquered during the Targaryen conquest and made subservient to the Iron Throne. It was reestablished upon the proclamation of Robb Stark as the King in the North during the War of the Five Kings, but was again defeated by the Iron Throne. It was reestablished once more with the proclamation of Jon Snow, alleged bastard brother of Robb, as King in the North following the Battle of the Bastards. However, Jon eventually pledged himself to Daenerys Targaryen, thus returning the North back under the fold of the Seven Kingdoms under House Targaryen. It was reestablished finally by Sansa Stark after the assassination of Daenerys Targaryen and the selection of Brandon Stark as the new King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men in the Great Council of 305 AC.
When the First Men crossed the Arm of Dorne from Essos to Westeros, they waged wars against the native peoples of the continent: the Children of the Forest. After thousands of years of warfare, however, the First Men and the Children reached a peace, agreeing to the Pact at the Isle of Faces; the First Men went on to adopt the Old Gods of the Forest worshiped by the Children. 2,000 years later, the Long Night descended upon the world, and the First Men and the Children of the Forest came together to push back the White Walkers in the War for the Dawn. Together, with the giants, they miraculously defeated the White Walkers, and raised the Wall to prevent the White Walkers from returning.
While those trapped beyond the Wall became the Free Folk, those south of the Wall began to come together and form kingdoms. Brandon the Builder raised Winterfell and took it as his seat, becoming the first King of Winter and forging the Kingdom of the North, ruling all the lands north of the Neck. House Stark continued to descend from his line, reigning as the Kings of Winter and later Kings in the North after successfully unifying the lands of the North against rival kings.
2,000 years later, the Andals crossed the Narrow Sea from Andalos and invaded Westeros. Bringing with them chivalry and the Faith of the Seven, the Andals smashed all the kingdoms of the First Men with the exception of the Kingdom of the North, which they made peace with. Thus, the Northmen continues to hold to the culture of the First Men and the religion of the Old Gods while the rest adapted to Andal culture and the Faith of the Seven. During this time, the last of the Children of the Forest and the giants south of the Wall disappeared, the Andals believing them to be evil creatures. Over the centuries, they, like the White Walkers, have faded into legend.
The First Men, the Andals, and the Rhoynar that lived in the Principality of Dorne, the southernmost kingdom in Westeros, faced a new common enemy, however: the last of the dragonlords. The Valyrian Freehold was a massive empire that spanned nearly half of the known world, including the entirety of the continent of Essos across the Narrow Sea. The empire was forged with the Valyrians taming fire-breathing beasts called dragons. They defeated vast empires in Essos, such as the Ghiscari Empire, and the many city-states of the continent. They posed no threat to Westeros, however, until the migration of one Valyrian noble family to an eastern offshore island they called: the Targaryens. Naming it Dragonstone and raising a castle of the same name, the Targaryens narrowly escaped the Doom, an incredible and catastrophic event that destroyed Valyria, ravaged the Valyrian peninsula, led to the ultimate collapse of the Valyrian Freehold, and killed all of the Valyrian noble families and their dragons, with the exception of the Targaryens.
With Essos largely in ruins and being split into various, independent city-states during the Century of Blood, such as the Free Cities, Aegon Targaryen, the new head of the new House Targaryen, decided to instead look west for his inevitable conquest. Riding the last three dragons in the world with his sister-wives Visenya and Rhaenys, and with a relatively small army, Aegon landed at a point that started the city of King's Landing and went on to conquer the seven independent kingdoms during the War of Conquest, including the Kingdom of the North when Torrhen Stark bent the knee to Aegon. Remembered as Aegon the Conqueror, he unified the Seven Kingdoms into one realm subservient to the Iron Throne, established the Targaryen dynasty, and was named the King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, and Protector of the Realm.
The Targaryen dynasty was ultimately overthrown nearly three centuries later during Robert's Rebellion with the disposing and deaths of Aerys II, the Mad King, and his eldest son and heir, Prince Rhaegar. Lord Robert Baratheon, the Lord Paramount of the Stormlands and head of House Baratheon, became the new King of the Andals and the First Men and established the Baratheon dynasty. However, the death of King Robert I seventeen years later threw the already destabilizing realm into another great civil war: the War of the Five Kings. Among the five warring kings was Robb Stark, the Young Wolf, who was proclaimed the first King in the North in nearly three centuries by not only his bannermen in the North, but also by the lords of the Riverlands. The Riverlands were ruled by House Tully of Riverrun, who were connected by blood to King Robb through his mother, Catelyn Tully.
The proclamation came about after Robert's heir and alleged son, Joffrey Baratheon, wrongfully had Eddard Stark, Robb's father, executed for treason after Eddard falsely confessed to save Sansa. Like the previous Hand of the King, Jon Arryn, Eddard Stark had discovered a shocking secret: Joffrey was in fact a bastard born of incest between Cersei Lannister, King Robert's wife, and her twin brother Jaime Lannister. For this, House Lannister backed King Joffrey I and functionally controlled the Iron Throne for many years. Tywin Lannister, the head of House Lannister, had also led the invasion of the Riverlands when Catelyn Stark had Tyrion Lannister arrested and brought to the Eyrie to stand trial with her sister, Lysa Arryn. The Northmen had come to the aid of the Rivermen when they learned of Eddard Stark's arrest and due to their intertwined bloodlines through marital alliances.
Though the resurgent Kingdom of the North was winning many of its battles, one of its vassals, House Frey of the Twins, turned against their liege lords when Robb married Talisa Maegyr after falling in love with her, breaking his vow to House Frey to marry one of Walder Frey's daughters. Walder Frey secretly colluded with Tywin Lannister and Roose Bolton to betray the Starks and Tullys. When Robb came to Frey to make amends, Frey feigned forgiveness and agreed to a marriage between Edmure Tully and Roslin Frey. However, this was a trap designed to lure the Starks into an ambush known as the Red Wedding, in which House Frey and House Bolton slaughtered them. Arranged in secret by Tywin Lannister, Tywin oversaw that Roose Bolton was named the new Warden of the North and granted Winterfell while Walder Frey was named the new Lord Paramount of the Trident and granted Riverrun. Roose was also married to one of Walder's daughters, Walda Frey.
House Bolton, which had fought against the Starks in ancient times as the Red Kings, unsteadily held the North as many of the Northern houses opposed their rule. Eventually, conflict broke out within House Bolton itself after Walda Bolton gave birth to a trueborn son. Roose's bastard son Ramsay had been legitimized by King Tommen I, but the line of succession would now be contested as he was not trueborn. Because of this, Ramsay assassinated his father and murdered Roose Bolton's family, seizing power in the North for himself.
Though Ramsay had the allegiance of House Karstark and an alliance with House Umber, his rule was contested by his runaway wife, Sansa Stark, the sister of Robb. Roose had previously arranged the marriage of Sansa to Ramsay with Petyr Baelish to legitimize Bolton rule over the North. Sansa, along with her resurrected half-brother Jon Snow, who was said to be the bastard son of Eddard Stark, raised a host of Stark loyalists under the banners of House Mormont, House Hornwood, and House Mazin. Jon also had the backing of the Free Folk, with whom he had formed an alliance with and allowed to cross the Wall to escape the Night King during his tenure as Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. Jon led the combined Stark-wildling host at the Battle of the Bastards, which the other Northern Houses sat out of, fearing the Boltons and not wanting to risk their men to a lost cause despite their loyalty to the Starks.
Though Jon's army was narrowly smashed by Ramsay's army, Sansa arrived at the battlefield with the knights of the Vale, led by House Arryn, the rulers of the Vale from the Eyrie. Ramsay was executed, and Sansa became the Lady of Winterfell while Jon Snow, named the White Wolf, was declared the King in the North by the gathered lords of the North and the Vale at Winterfell.
Jon Snow was primarily concerned with the mysterious return of the White Walkers north of the Wall, which most of Westeros scoffed at, believing the White Walkers to be nothing more than fairy tales. Though his bannermen believed him, Jon's decision to negotiate with Daenerys Targaryen, who had begun her war for Westeros to take the Iron Throne from Cersei Lannister, was unpopular as many remembered the tyranny of her father, the Mad King, whom they had fought and overthrown. Nonetheless, Daenerys controlled the mines of dragonglass at Dragonstone, which could be used to kill White Walkers and stop wights, as well as three fire breathing dragons that could also stop wights. Jon departed to White Harbor to sail to Dragonstone with Ser Davos Seaworth and a company of guards, leaving his half-sister Sansa in charge of the North as Lady Regent.
Though initially sharing a tense relationship, Jon and Daenerys grew to trust each other, with Daenerys allowing Jon to mine the dragonglass and coming to have more faith in him over his concern with the White Walkers. Per a proposal put forward by Tyrion Lannister, the Hand to Daenerys, Jon led an expedition beyond the Wall to capture a wight to use as proof at an upcoming parley in King's Landing. Jon and his fellowship succeeded in subduing a wight, though faced heavy losses: several wildling warriors, Thoros of Myr, and Benjen Stark all fell, as well as one of Daenerys's dragons, Viserion, at the hands of the Night King after Daenerys flew to the far north to rescue Jon and his group. For this, Jon pledged himself to Daenerys on a ship to the capital and they eventually fall in love.
Once reaching the capital for the Dragonpit Summit, Jon, Daenerys, and their followers met with Cersei Lannister and her retinue at the Dragonpit, where Jon publicly declared that he had pledged himself to Daenerys Targaryen already after Cersei agreed to a truce and in exchange asked for Jon to remain neutral after the Great War. Though negotiations broke down, Tyrion was able to repair the truce, and Cersei pledged her forces to the northern cause (though secretly planned to hold back her armies and let her enemies slaughter each other). Jon, who was appointed Warden of the North by Daenerys, then had a raven sent to Winterfell informing Sansa of this.
After Daenerys Targaryen's war, which culminated in her laying waste to the surrendered populace of King's Landing, Jon reluctantly assassinated her to stop her plans for further destruction. Weeks later, a great council decided to exile Jon as a compromise between the Unsullied, who insisted on Jon's execution, and the North, who wanted him freed. Sansa decided to separate the North from the Seven Kingdoms. This was permitted by the new King Bran Stark during his election by all the lords of the Seven Kingdoms but Sansa abstained, opting to vouch for the North's independence. Sansa is subsequently crowned the Queen in the North by a gathering of Northern lords and soldiers at Winterfell.
The Kingdom of the North is an absolute monarchy intertwined with a system of feudalism. The monarch is referred to as the King in the North, who rules the kingdom from the castle of Winterfell, the capital.
Like their counterparts across Westeros, the Kingdom of the North utilizes feudalism to keep control and order. Lands are ruled by noble houses, who owe their fealty to the King in the North, typically the head of House Stark. In turn, these noble houses may have lesser vassals of their own, ruling over their own sections of land. Unlike their southern counterparts, chivalry is not deeply ingrained in the culture of the North, so knightly Houses are a rare find in the kingdom. At the bottom of the social ladder are the smallfolk, or the commoners, who make up the majority of the population of the kingdom.
The King in the North bears no formal titles on their advisors, though the king can indeed host a council and heed the advice of any appointed advisors.
Black: Territory controlled directly by the Night's WatchDark green: Territory controlled directly by the King in the North in 303 ACLight green: Territory formerly claimed by the King in the North
The Kingdom of the North is named after the North, one of the nine distinct regions of the continent of Westeros and by far the largest of the nine. As suggested by its name, the North constitutes the northernmost lands of Westeros south of the Wall; the lands beyond the Wall are not apart of any kingdom.
Historically, the Kingdom of the North was only made up of the region known as the North itself, though the borders of the North were loosely defined; hence why the King in the North was not called the "King of the North."
This was most noticeably seen during the War of the Five Kings, where the region that borders the North to its south, the Riverlands, declared for House Stark and was annexed into the reestablished Kingdom of the North. House Tully of Riverrun continued to rule the Riverlands on behalf of Robb Stark. They were no longer subservient to the Iron Throne, but instead to Winterfell. The Tullys were tied by blood to House Stark through the marriage of Catelyn Tully to Eddard Stark; King Robb was their eldest son. After the Red Wedding, while the North fell to the rule of House Bolton of the Dreadfort, the Riverlands fell to the rule of House Frey of the Twins, both Houses ruling on behalf of the Iron Throne.
This took precedence once more in the "aftermath conflicts" of the War of the Five Kings at the Battle of the Bastards. The resurgent Stark army, made up of loyalists as well as the surviving Free Folk who traditionally lived beyond the Wall, was aided by a cavalry force of House Arryn, the rulers of the Vale, which borders the North on its southeastern border. After the battle which saw the defeat and extinction of House Bolton, both the lords of the North and the lords of the Vale declared Jon Snow, bastard brother of King Robb, their King in the North. The Vale and the North had been strong allies for many years, partially thanks to the friendship shared between Jon Arryn and Eddard Stark, who together, alongside Robert Baratheon and Hoster Tully, overthrew the Targaryen dynasty during the War of the Usurper.
Robin Arryn became the new lord of the Vale at an unknown point of time and participated in the election of the new king after the assassination of Daenerys Targaryen. The North was allowed to secede under Lady Sansa Stark.
Being dominated by the social system known as feudalism, the Kingdom of the North has no permanent, united army that stands behind the King in the North. Rather, individual armies are controlled separately by the noble houses of the North. Despite this, there is a clear chain of command: the King in the North can rally his banners, and in turn, the lords of noble houses can rally the banners of their vassals. Each lord maintains a permanent group of elite knights, warriors, and other guards. Furthermore, the smallfolk, or commoners, of the lands can be conscripted into the Northern armies through feudal levies.
The modern Northmen continue to practice much of the culture of the First Men and uphold their values, as the Kingdom of the North was the only kingdom not to fall to the Andal invaders. As such, their culture, much like that of the ironborn and the Dornishmen, is very distinct from the rest of Westeros.
Chivalry is practiced little in the North, with few warriors having been formally anointed as knights. Northern warriors hold onto their own ideas of honor and virtue separate from the knighthood brought over by the Andals. A common belief expressed by Eddard Stark is that "the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword," referring to how Northern lords execute prisoners on their own, and do not rely on a headsman to deliver their justice. Northern warriors are, in general, much more brutish and fearsome than their southern counterparts.
Because of their isolation from the southern kingdoms in large part due to the immense size of the North, the Northerners are very loyal to their own, something that Jon Snow states is in fact similar to the Free Folk, who only follow various chieftains of their own and occasionally their own King-Beyond-the-Wall.
The Northmen continue to hold onto the traditions of their Old Way.
Because the First Men held the Kingdom of the North against the Andal invaders, the descending Northmen continued to hold onto their ancestors' culture and religion, worshiping the Old Gods of the Forest that the First Men were said to have adopted from the Children of the Forest thousands of years ago. Nonetheless, intermingling with the Andals in the southern kingdoms also brought over the influence of the Faith of the Seven to the North.
The old nature gods worshiped by the Children of the Forest and later the First Men. Still worshiped by the people of the North and a few isolated others, particularly ancient noble houses, in the south of Westeros. The old gods are numerous and nameless. Prayers and offerings are made to the old gods in front of heart trees; great weirwood trees with faces carved into the bark. Its followers believe that the Old Gods can see through the heart trees, which caused the Andals to cut down most heart trees in southern Westeros. The faith of the Old Gods of the Forest is the dominant religion worshiped by the majority in the Kingdom of the North.
The Faith of the Seven was brought to Westeros by the Andals. The Faith contends there is one god consisting of seven separate aspects: the Mother, the Father, the Warrior, the Smith, the Maiden, the Crone, and the Stranger. People worship the Seven in seven-sided churches called septs and are led in worship by priests and priestesses known as "septons" and "septas". The Faith is not only a belief system but also an institution led by the High Septon from the Great Sept of Baelor in King's Landing. The Faith has traditionally not been very tolerant of other religions but this was relaxed somewhat after centuries of coexistence with the remaining followers of the Old Gods and the Drowned God.
When the Rhoynar migrated to Dorne a thousand years ago they converted to the Faith of the Seven, but often simply ignored rules they didn't like. The modern Dornishmen have somewhat relaxed sexual mores, attaching no stigma to bastard children, homosexuality, or formal mistresses. While they follow some of the rules of the Faith of the Seven more loosely, however, the Dornishmen are no less devout.
The Faith of the Seven is worshiped by a minority in the Kingdom of the North. The annexation of the Riverlands under Robb Stark and later the Vale under Jon Snow has officially made the religion more widespread in the kingdom, however, though not much more so in the North itself. With the Riverlands and Vale no longer part of the Kingdom of the North, the Faith of the Seven has become more limited. Worshipers of the Seven in the North include House Manderly, as well as most of the population of White Harbor.
House Tully of Riverrun is a Great House of Westeros. Its most senior member carried the title of Lord of Riverrun and Lord Paramount of the Trident, until the Red Wedding. The current head is Lord Edmure Tully, son of the late Hoster Tully. The Tully sigil is a silver trout on a red and blue background. Their house words are "Family, Duty, Honor."
At the onset of the War of the Five Kings, House Tully came under attack by House Lannister and lent its support for House Stark when they came to their aid in the liberation of the Riverlands. House Tully has since been formally stripped of lands and titles for rebellion against the Iron Throne, with Lord Edmure a captive of House Frey following the Red Wedding.
Later, Brynden Tully gathered the remaining Tully forces and reclaimed Riverrun from the Freys, reopening conflict between the Tullys and the Iron Throne. The Freys lay siege to Riverrun, and were later assisted by the Lannisters on the orders of King Tommen I. Jaime Lannister managed to end the siege by convincing Edmure Tully to command the garrison to lay down their weapons in return for clemency and protection. Brynden was killed during a final stand with Lannister and Frey forces while Edmure was returned to the Freys as a prisoner. Following the deaths of most of House Frey and the defeat of Cersei Lannister at King's Landing, Edmure is freed and restored to his titles and lands.
House Tully is one of the Great Houses of Westeros. Their lands are the central part of the continent. Their seat is Riverrun, a castle at the confluence of the Red Fork of the Trident with the Tumblestone. They rule over the Riverlands from the castle and the head of the house is the Lord of Riverrun.
House Tully rose to prominence during the War of Conquest. Lord Edmyn Tully rebelled against the King of the Isles and the Rivers, Harren the Black, to support the invading House Targaryen. Edmyn's fellow Riverlords followed his lead. When Aegon Targaryen established his rule from the Iron Throne he rewarded Edmyn, elevating the Tullys to Lords Paramount of the Trident.
House Tully fought on the side of the Iron Throne during the War of the Ninepenny Kings. Hoster Tully and Brynden Tully fought during the conflict. The two brothers later parted on acrimonious terms after Brynden rejected his older brother's command that he marry Bethany Redwyne in order to seal a marriage pact with House Redwyne. Brynden broke ties with Hoster, earning the name "Blackfish", which also became his personal sigil. Hoster later married Lady Minisa of House Whent and they produced three children: two daughters Catelyn, Lysa, and a son named Edmure.
Its current head is Lord Edmure Tully. His sisters, Catelyn and Lysa, married Lords Eddard Stark and Jon Arryn during Robert's Rebellion, forming a powerful alliance of major houses. Together, the Tully-Stark-Arryn alliance defeated the "Mad King" Aerys II and ended Targaryen rule over the Seven Kingdoms.
Following Tyrion's kidnapping, the Lannister soldiers raid and pillage the Riverlands as a rebuff to the Tullys.
During the War of the Five Kings, a Lannister host under Jaime Lannister lays siege to the Tully seat of Riverrun, but a Northern force defeats it. Due to their marriage alliance with the Starks, the Tullys join several northern houses in proclaiming Robb Stark the King in the North.
A funeral is held for Lord Hoster Tully. The tide of the war is not going well for the Stark-Tully alliance, since the Lannisters defeated Stannis Baratheon and secured an alliance with House Tyrell of the Reach. The recent Tully victory only makes things worse for the depleted Stark-Tully forces. The abandonment of the Karstark troops weakens the Stark-Tully alliance even more.
Short on manpower, the Starks and Tullys are forced to repair their strained relationship with House Frey. During Edmure's wedding, the Tully and Stark forces are slaughtered by the Freys. Lord Frey is granted lordship over the Tully seat of Riverrun and paramountcy over the Riverlands by the Iron Throne.
The Blackfish assembles the remnants of the Tully armies still loyal to his House, and retakes Riverrun from the Freys.
The Freys besiege Riverrun, and are reinforced by a Lannister force. Eventually, Edmure yields Riverrun, and Brynden is killed.
Reinstated at Riverrun as the lord of the Riverlands, Edmure participates in the Great Council of 305 AC, where he agrees to the election of Bran Stark.
During Robert's Rebellion and the War of the Five Kings, House Tully has proven itself capable in times of conflict, fighting and prevailing with several engagements within each conflict, such as the Battle of the Trident and the Battle of Stone Mill. However, the Red Wedding greatly weakened the once formidable great house, leading to the destruction of the Tully army and stripping them of lands and titles. Despite this enormous setback, House Tully managed to reclaim Riverrun; however, it was eventually lost due to capitulation of the Tully garrison, leading to the death of Brynden Tully, leaving House Tully in a precarious position.
The Tully soldiers are outfitted with black scale leather armor, possibly being inspired by the Tully sigil, with chainmail beneath, adding further protection to the wearer. This design, is not aesthetically practical but more symbolic, since the Tully men live in a region that consists mostly of rivers. The design also provides a degree of low visibility during nighttime, allowing them to raid enemy camps with little detection. This makes them nimble compared to soldiers who might be wearing heavy plates of armor, while retaining a degree of protection.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, House Tully is an old house which has held the castle at Riverrun for some centuries, but did not rise to greatness until King Aegon I's invasion. Aegon drove the ironborn out of the Riverlands and appointed Lord Edmyn Tully as the overlord of the area in thanks for his support during the Conquest. The Tullys joined the Starks, Baratheons and Arryns in rising against the Mad King, providing numerous troops for Robert Baratheon's armies.
The Tully banner is different in the books than in the series. In the TV series, it is striped horizontally, with one large red section and one large blue section, separated by white stripes. In the novels it has five vertical stripes of equal width; two muddy-red stripes separate three blue stripes (and there are no white stripes).
In a somewhat unusual in-joke, The World of Ice & Fire reveals that Tullys active during the Dance of the Dragons are named after Muppets: Lord Grover Tully, his grandson Ser Elmo Tully, and his great-grandsons Lord Kermit Tully and Ser Oscar Tully.
The following sworn houses did not appear in the series:
Septa Mordane teaching needlework to the young ladies of Winterfell.
Septas are the female clergy of the Faith of the Seven. They are women sworn to celibacy, sometimes serving noble houses as governesses and tutors to the daughters of lords, teaching them in matters of etiquette and history and activities such as sewing. In contrast, male clergy are known as septons.
Septas dress in humble clothing. This normally comprises a subdued shade with their hair concealed.
Septa Mordane was the septa at Winterfell and tutor to the daughters of House Stark.
Mordane tutoring a young Sansa.
Mordane is a septa, a woman taking holy vows of devotion and chastity, of the Faith of the Seven. She serves at the sept in Winterfell. Her secondary duties involve tutoring Sansa and Arya Stark in needlework, embroidery, singing, morals, and other ladylike duties.
Septa Mordane complimenting Sansa's needlework.
Septa Mordane tutors Arya and Sansa in needlework. She compliments Sansa on the skill of her work, but doesn't remark on Arya's grudging efforts. Mordane accompanies Arya and Sansa to King's Landing and dines with them. She is present at the meal when Arya threatens to kill Joffrey Baratheon for his actions on the Kingsroad and reports this to her father. When Sansa is disdainful of the doll which Eddard Stark gives her and asks to be excused, it is to Septa Mordane that he says, "War was easier than daughters." Mordane shows Sansa the throne room as part of Sansa's tutoring on the history of the Seven Kingdoms. Sansa is concerned over what will happen if she has no sons, only daughters, a concern that Mordane dismisses as highly unlikely.
Mordane accompanies Arya and Sansa to the Hand's tournament and is present when Littlefinger explains the background of his nickname to Arya. Mordane chaperones Sansa when Joffrey meets her to apologize for his behavior on the Kingsroad. She appears to be less approving of Joffrey than she once was, but Sansa doesn't notice. Sansa is rude to Septa Mordane when she asked the septa of her origins (likely due to Cersei's example being a bad influence).
Mordane faces the Lannister soldiers.
After the failed attempt by Sansa's father to remove Joffrey from the Iron Throne following King Robert's death, Mordane hears combat in the courtyard at the Red Keep. Fearing the worst, she orders Sansa to run to her room and bar the door to anyone she does not know. After Sansa leaves, Mordane is confronted by several Lannister soldiers.
Mordane's head on Traitors' Walk.
After the North rises in rebellion, Joffrey takes Sansa to the Traitors' Walk and forces her to gaze at the head of her father and those of her household on spikes. He also reveals to Sansa's horror that he needlessly had Mordane beheaded, and her head placed on a spike next to that of her father.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Septa Mordane is a loyal servant of House Stark, despite the fact that most of the family worships the Old Gods of the Forest rather than the Seven. She finds Sansa to be a willing, able and promising student. She despairs at the tomboyish Arya, who'd rather be running around the castle and playing with swords. Arya hates to do needlework and when she runs off to watch sword practice, she returns to her room to find Septa Mordane and her mother waiting to have words with her. Despite this rebellion, she is fond and fiercely protective of both of her charges.
She travels to King's Landing with Eddard Stark and his daughters. Arya is angry when she hears Septa Mordane praising Princess Myrcella's needlework even though it's not much better than Arya's own, which is always found wanting.
Septa Mordane goes to the Hand's tourney with Sansa and Jeyne Poole and must leave when Jeyne gets distraught witnessing the death of Ser Hugh of the Vale, pierced in the neck by a splinter of a jousting lance directly in front of them. She leads Jeyne away. Later the Septa chaperones Sansa to the post tourney feast where Joffrey encourages them both to drink wine. When Sansa is ready to go she realizes that Septa Mordane is lying face down on the table asleep and accepts Joffrey's offer of an escort, but Joffrey then tells the Hound to do it and leaves them.
Sansa is not with Septa Mordane when the attack on Eddard Stark's people takes place in the book. Sansa went to Cersei to plead for her to talk to Eddard after he told Sansa that she and Arya were going to be taken out of the Keep by Stark men and taken to the docks to board a ship for Winterfell. Sansa is so distraught over leaving King's Landing and the breaking of her betrothal to Joffrey, she doesn't know she is betraying her father and putting them all in peril. Cersei promises to help, but then has Sansa escorted to a tower room and locked in under guard. Later Jeyne Poole is pushed into the room and they are both kept there for three days with no idea of what is occurring, other than the little that Jeyne saw of Stark men being killed.
Sansa is shown Septa Mordane's unrecognizable head on a spike by Joffrey, he takes her to see her father's head up on the walls, where Sansa asks why she was killed as she was god sworn. Joffrey then replies, claiming that she was executed because she was a traitor.
The direwolf is an unusually large and intelligent species of wolf that inhabit Westeros. The Starks use a grey direwolf's head as their sigil.
Direwolves are held to be near-mythical in most of the south of Westeros. Inhabitants of the North acknowledge that they are a real animal, but they are very rarely encountered there. There are some rumors of them living in the Wolfswood near Winterfell, but these are unconfirmed. There may have been larger direwolf populations in the North in past millennia, but centuries of human encroachment on their territory have pushed their range back to the furthest north.
There have been confirmed sightings north of the Wall by the Night's Watch who guard it. The wildlings who live beyond the Wall claim that direwolves can be found in greater numbers in the Haunted Forest to the north of the Wall. By the reign of King Robert Baratheon, no direwolf had been sighted south of the Wall - even in the Stark lands of the North - in over 200 years.
Eddard Stark and his sons Robb and Bran, his "bastard" son Jon Snow and his ward Theon Greyjoy find a dead female direwolf; it died after giving birth, and her five pups huddle by the corpse for warmth. Eddard advocates killing the pups out of mercy, but Jon convinces his "father" that this is an omen: the direwolf is the symbol of House Stark, and Eddard has five trueborn children. Eddard agrees that his children can have the pups, but only if they raise them themselves with no help from the servants. Just as the party leaves, Jon finds a sixth pup, an albino runt of the litter. Theon mockingly points out that this one belongs to Jon.
When Eddard travels south to King's Landing to serve as Hand of the King, he brings his daughters Sansa and Arya along with their pet direwolves, Lady and Nymeria. These are the first direwolves to be seen so far south in hundreds of years. After Nymeria attacks Prince Joffrey, Arya drives her away to escape execution for attacking Joffrey; in her place, Lady is killed by Eddard at Robert's command. Nymeria has been traveling the Riverlands ever since where she leads a pack of gray wolves.
The other direwolves remain with their masters until they are killed, with the exception of Jon's direwolf Ghost, who is still alive and by Jon's side.
A year-old juvenile direwolf, already taller at its shoulder than a man's waist.
An adult direwolf is as large as a small horse, and can rip a man's arm from its socket. Even a juvenile direwolf is quite capable of killing a man by ripping out his throat. Physically, they are not simply larger versions of wolves, but have slightly different proportions than their smaller cousins; their heads are larger with a leaner, more pronounced muzzle, their legs are longer in proportion to their body, and they have proportionately larger teeth that are often used to crush bones. They are typically gray to almost black, sometimes with a lighter underbody or reddish tints. Some are light gray and white or reddish tan or mixed red and gray. A few are true albinoes. They mostly have golden to green eyes with some having hazel, amber or albino red irises.
Direwolves are loyal to their masters and will attack anyone who threatens them. Arya's direwolf Nymeria attacked Joffrey after he threatened her with a sword, while Bran's Summer killed a would-be assassin in Bran's bedroom. They will also come to the aid of those they know are loyal to their masters, since Ghost defended Samwell Tarly and Gilly, both friends of Jon, from Night's Watch bullies, and later prepared to fight alongside Davos Seaworth, Eddison Tollett and a handful of Jon's loyal brothers against the Night's Watch mutineers who betrayed and murdered Jon not long before.
At the Battle of Oxcross during the War of the Five Kings, Robb's direwolf Grey Wind plays a vital part in Robb's victory, killing several Lannister sentries and panicking their horses. During the Battle of Castle Black, Ghost killed numerous wildlings, among them at least one Thenn.
The six Stark children adopted six orphaned direwolf cubs found in the Wolfswood. They are as follows:
Nymeria, portrayed by an adult dog in Season 1.
Ghost, played by a real wolf in Season 2, digitally resized to look even bigger
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the biology and behavior of direwolves are the same.
By the point the books reached, the status of the Starks' direwolves is:
The name dire wolf (Latin: Aenocyon dirus) is given to an actual species of Pleistocene megafauna that once existed on real-life Earth, like the mammoth and sabertooth cat. Dire wolves inhabited the Americas and Asia, from 1.8 million years ago to about 10,000 years ago. Note that the name of the real-life animal is spelled as two words, "dire wolf", but that the name in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels is consistently spelled as one word, "direwolf".
Lady was one of six direwolf pups found by the children of House Stark. Lady was adopted and raised by Sansa Stark.
Lady was adopted as a pup with the rest of the Stark direwolves, after Eddard Stark and his entourage came upon the pups and their deceased mother. At Jon Snow's request, the pups were spared and each Stark child adopted one as their own. Sansa named her direwolf Lady.
Having grown to the size of an adult dog already, Lady accompanies Sansa when she moves to King's Landing. While they are near the Inn at the Crossroads, however, she is executed by her father after Cersei spitefully demands she be killed in place of Nymeria, who was driven away by Arya to save her from certain death after biting Joffrey in defense of Arya. Although Ilyn Payne was supposed to kill Lady, Ned carried out the sentence himself citing that, being of the North, she deserves better than a butcher. At the moment she is killed, Bran awakes from his coma.
Sophie Turner and Zunni, who played Lady.
Series author George R.R. Martin reported on his blog that after the filming of the episode in which Sansa's direwolf, Lady, is executed, the dog that played Lady, a Northern Inuit named Zunni, was adopted by Sophie Turner, the actress who plays Sansa.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Lady is arguably the gentlest and most trusting of the six wolf pups, as well as the smallest.
When Robert acquiesces to Cersei's demand that Lady be put down in place of Nymeria, Ned beseeches him to reconsider by invoking the name of his deceased sister Lyanna, which appears to have an effect on Robert, as he turns around and curses Cersei. Ned also goes on to tell Robert to do it himself, but Robert slowly walks away. Sansa pleads for Lady's life, reminding Ned of his sister's pleading. With great reluctance, Ned gives Lady a quick death, but refuses to let Cersei have her pelt, and orders a group of his men to take the slain direwolf back to Winterfell for burial, which they do. Grey Wind, Summer, and Shaggydog are later heard howling in grief for their fallen sister near her grave. Robert later tells Ned that he is sorry for allowing Lady to be killed, adding that he knows Joffrey was lying about being attacked.
There is no connection in the books between Lady's death and Bran's awakening.
When Catelyn tells Ned about the attempt on Bran's life and how his direwolf saved his life, Ned recalls what Jon said about the pack ("Your children were meant to have these pups"), and is filled with guilt and fear about killing Lady: If the gods had sent these wolves, what folly had he done?
While Sansa stays at Littlefinger's ancestral home, she befriends an old blind guard dog. Recalling her dead direwolf, she says to the old dog, "I wish that you were Lady".
While Cersei performs the walk of atonement, she begins to hallucinate and sees Sansa with a shaggy grey dog that might have been Lady.
Both in the books and the TV show, Lady is the first to die of the pack.
Trueborn with Cersei:{Son}
Legal, fathered by Jaime Lannister:{Joffrey I Baratheon}{Myrcella Baratheon}{Tommen I Baratheon}
Histories & Lore:"Mad King Aerys: House Baratheon""Mad King Aerys: House Stark""Robert's Rebellion: House Baratheon""Robert's Rebellion: House Targaryen""The Sack of King's Landing: House Targaryen""The Sack of King's Landing: House Baratheon""The Sack of King's Landing: House Stark""The Sack of King's Landing: House Lannister""House Baratheon""House Arryn""House Targaryen""Greyjoy Rebellion: Robb Stark""Greyjoy Rebellion: Theon Greyjoy""Greyjoy Rebellion: Stannis Baratheon""Robert's Rebellion: Stannis Baratheon""Robert's Rebellion: Davos Seaworth""Robert's Rebellion: Margaery Tyrell""Robert's Rebellion: Catelyn Stark""House Tyrell""House Greyjoy""House Clegane""Dragonstone""The Alchemist Guild""Lord of Light""Robert's Rebellion: Petyr Baelish and Varys""The Reach""The Riverlands""The Stormlands""The Vale""House Baelish""Robert's Rebellion: Oberyn Martell""Robert's Rebellion: Barristan Selmy""The Great Tourney at Harrenhal""Robert's Rebellion: Jaime Lannister""Brotherhood Without Banners""Knights of the Vale""House Tarly""The Hand of the King""The Greyjoy Rebellion"
King Robert I Baratheon was the seventeenth ruler of the Seven Kingdoms and the first king of the Baratheon dynasty.
Robert, a great warrior and charismatic man in his youth, took the throne through conquest in the war known as Robert's Rebellion, which began when the Prince of Dragonstone, Rhaegar Targaryen, allegedly abducted Robert's betrothed, Lyanna Stark. Killing Rhaegar at the Battle of the Trident, his climactic duel turned the tides of the war in his favor. After the war and following Lyanna's death, Robert married Cersei Lannister to cement an alliance with House Lannister to hold the kingdoms together, but he mistreated her and the marriage was loveless.
Robert also had two younger brothers, Stannis and Renly. He and Cersei had three children: Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen. However, unbeknownst to Robert and most of the realm, all three were actually fathered by Cersei's twin brother, Jaime Lannister. On the other hand, Robert had many bastards from other women, including Gendry and Barra.
Lyanna and her father Lord Rickard Stark with Robert Baratheon.
Robert was the first son of Steffon Baratheon and Cassana Baratheon, and had two younger brothers, Renly and Stannis. His parents died in his youth when their ship was caught in a storm; Robert, standing on the walls of Storm's End with Stannis, witnessed his parents ship that was returning from Essos break up on the rocks. He inherited the lordship, and was fostered by Jon Arryn, the head of House Arryn, another Great House. Eddard Stark, the second son of House Stark, was also fostered by Jon Arryn and Robert and Eddard became as close as brothers.
Robert served King Aerys II Targaryen (known as the Mad King) as the Lord Paramount of the Stormlands. Robert was betrothed to Lyanna Stark, Eddard's sister. At the time of their betrothal, Robert beat Richard Lonmouth during the tourney at Harrenhal.
Robert Baratheon mourns at the funeral of Lyanna Stark.
However, Lyanna was allegedly kidnapped by Rhaegar Targaryen. The Mad King had Eddard's father and brother killed for protesting against the kidnapping. Their deaths sparked a massive uprising against Aerys led by Robert, Eddard and Jon Arryn. Lyanna and Aerys died during the civil war that followed. Robert claimed the Iron Throne because he started the war and killed Prince Rhaegar personally. Robert also had the best claim to the throne among the rebels, being of Targaryen descent through both his father (Steffon being the son of Rhaelle Targaryen) and mother. The other leaders of the rebels, Jon Arryn and Eddard Stark, believed that Robert, with his claim and charismatic personality, should be king and both stood aside. However, due to Tywin Lannister brutally sacking King's Landing and Gregor Clegane murdering Elia Martell and her two children with Rhaegar in cold blood, Robert and Eddard briefly fell out over the former's refusal to make Tywin and Gregor answer for their war crimes.
Robert Baratheon slays Rhaegar Targaryen at the Battle of the Trident.
Robert was devastated by Lyanna's death, but was urged by Jon Arryn to marry Cersei of House Lannister, making an alliance with her father Tywin Lannister, who had joined his cause late in the conflict and delivered the capital of King's Landing to him. He named Jon Arryn as his Hand while Eddard took his father's role as Warden of the North.
Stannis fought for Robert through the war though the two brothers never loved each other. Robert tells Eddard Stark "You were the brother I chose." Despite Stannis's service during the war, Robert made Renly the Lord of Storm's End following his victory. Renly was only a child during the war, so he did not fight. Stannis was made Lord of Dragonstone and served on Robert's Small Council as Master of Ships. Renly later joined the Small Council as Master of Laws.
Robert has been the King of the Andals and the First Men and the ruler of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros since the end of the civil war. However, he was more interested in drinking, whoring and hunting than ruling his kingdom. He revels in the glory days of the rebellion. He leaves running the kingdom largely to his Small Council, led by Jon Arryn.
King Robert marries Cersei Lannister.
King Robert also loves to throw events such as tournaments at which he spares no expense. Unfortunately, after seventeen years Robert's excesses have left the realm deeply in debt for a shocking six million Gold Dragons, half to House Lannister. He apparently has three children with Cersei: Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen. Unbeknownst to Robert, all three were actually fathered by Cersei's twin brother Jaime. Robert has also fathered several illegitimate bastards, to whom he pays no attention. He has an unacknowledged bastard son named Gendry fathered on a tavern wench. He has an unacknowledged bastard daughter named Barra fathered on the prostitute Mhaegen. He has at least four other unacknowledged bastards fathered with various women in the city of King's Landing alone.
Jon Arryn began investigating the lineage of Cersei's children, comparing their appearance to Robert's bastard offspring. He died under mysterious circumstances shortly after beginning his investigation. Robert has decided to ride north to Eddard's keep Winterfell to name him as Jon Arryn's replacement.
Lord Eddard and Lady Catelyn show respect to King Robert.
Robert mourns for Lyanna 17 years after her death.
The royal party arrives in Winterfell and Eddard presents his household to Robert. After initial greetings, Robert demands to see the crypts and pay his respects, stoking Cersei's impatience. In the crypts, Robert places a feather in the hand of a statue of Lyanna. He tells Eddard that in his dreams he kills Rhaegar every night anew, but Eddard replies that House Targaryen is destroyed. "Not all of them," Robert counters. Robert formally offers Eddard the role of Hand of the King, telling him that he needs someone to run the kingdom and revealing that he feared betrayal from within his court. Eddard asks for time to think about it. Robert agrees but offers a sweetener: the hand of his son Joffrey in marriage to Eddard's daughter Sansa. A great feast is held in honor of the king's visit to Winterfell. The next morning Eddard and Robert go hunting and Eddard accepts Robert's offer, with Robert stating that Ned is a loyal friend, the last one he's got.
The parties depart Winterfell. Days later, on the Kingsroad south to the capital, Robert calls a halt to discuss some newly-arrived dire news with Eddard. Robert's spies have learned of Daenerys Targaryen's marriage to Khal Drogo whose khalasar is reported to number over one hundred thousand people. Eddard points out that the Dothraki cannot cross the Narrow Sea, as they have no ships, but Robert is concerned that the Seven Kingdoms will soon face another war. A curious Robert asks Eddard about Wylla, the alleged mother of his bastard son, Jon Snow, but Eddard refuses to talk about her.
On the Kingsroad, the royal party reaches the Inn at the Crossroads, a noted stop on the way south to the capital. Joffrey was injured by Nymeria, a direwolf belonging to Ned's younger daughter Arya during the halt. Arya is brought before Robert and truthfully blames Joffrey for instigating the incident but Joffrey's falsified version of events is supported by Sansa. Robert appears to sense what is going on and becomes furious that a minor fracas has become a major incident with his wife and his new Hand accusing one another's children; he also appears to exhibit disdain towards Joffrey over the fact his son was beaten and disarmed by a girl several years his junior. He decides to let Ned discipline Arya whilst he will do the same to Joffrey, but to appease his Queen he agrees that a direwolf must be executed. When Nymeria cannot be found, Robert acquiesces to Cersei when she demands that Sansa's wolf Lady be killed instead, infuriating Ned, who carries out the deed himself.
Robert is informed of the unlikelihood of his failure in the melee.
On his return to King's Landing Robert orders a tournament to celebrate Eddard's appointment as King's Hand. He avoids the Small Council meetings where discussion of the kingdom's mounting debts and the difficulty of paying for the tournament are raised. Robert swaps old war stories with Ser Barristan Selmy and Jaime, whilst also humiliating his 'useless' squire, Lancel Lannister. Robert enjoys the attentions of at least four women in his chambers. Jaime Lannister, left guarding his room outside, is (hypocritically) infuriated by the insult done to his sister by this, and vents about it to Jory Cassel.
Robert and Cersei Lannister watch the tournament.
Robert learns that Daenerys is pregnant and orders that she and her brother Viserys Targaryen be assassinated. Eddard disagrees with the decision, and resigns as Hand, enraging Robert. Later, Cersei asks the King if it was wise to lose Eddard in this way and they, with surprising civility, discuss their marriage. Robert admits that he never loved her because of Lyanna, although she died so long ago that he can no longer remember her face. Cersei asks why Robert is so worried about the prospect of a Targaryen-aligned Dothraki army. Robert explains that should the Dothraki cross the Narrow Sea, the nobles can retreat to their castles, but the smallfolk would be slaughtered, and the nobles in the castles will starve while the Dothraki rove outside the gates. Robert's brother Renly reports that Robert is planning a big hunt and has asked Renly to accompany him, a prospect Renly dreads.
King Robert Baratheon, Renly, the King's squire Lancel Lannister, and Barristan Selmy at the hunt.
Robert and Cersei visit Eddard as he recovers at the Tower of the Hand, from wounds sustained fighting Jaime and his guards. Cersei is furious with Eddard for having her brother Tyrion arrested and for fighting with Jaime, but Eddard is unrepentant. She wants Robert to take action against him, but Robert refuses to condemn him, without hearing Eddard's side, and tells her to be silent. When Cersei protests further, and calls Robert a woman, he hits her. She says that she will wear the bruise with honor. Robert tells her to be silent, or he will honor her again, and Cersei leaves in anger. Afterward, Robert restores Eddard to his position as King's Hand, and tells him not to resign again or he will give the position to Jaime. He tells Ned to end the animosity between House Stark and House Lannister, as strife between the two houses could lead them into war, and that he is leaving on a hunt in the Kingswood and wants the realm at peace by the time he returns. Robert goes hunting, taking Selmy, Lancel and Renly with him. Being supplied with wine by Lancel, Robert becomes drunk and nostalgic, and Renly becomes annoyed with Robert for glorifying the "good old days" and leaves the hunt to return to the castle.
Robert makes Ned protector of the Realm on his deathbed.
Robert is badly wounded whilst trying to kill a boar while hunting. He is taken back to the capital and on his deathbed tells Joffrey that he wishes he could have been a better father to him. After Robert commands everyone to leave, he names Ned as Lord Regent and Protector of the Realm. Eddard has learned that Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen are not Robert's children, but are instead the product of incest between Cersei and her twin brother Jaime, a fact he is unable to tell the dying Robert. Robert also asks him to cancel the attempt on Daenerys's life but it comes too late to stop it. After Robert's death, Cersei destroys the proclamation of Eddard as Regent and Protector of the Realm and has Eddard arrested. Renly also flees the city, after telling Eddard that he would make a better king than his and Robert's other brother (and the rightful heir), Stannis. Robert's death and Eddard's subsequent execution sparks the War of the Five Kings with both of his brothers, Joffrey, Balon Greyjoy, and Robb Stark each crowning themselves as kings.
After learning the true parentage of Joffrey and his siblings, Stannis has his scribe Matthos Seaworth prepare a letter to be distributed to the Seven Kingdoms. As Matthos is reading a rough draft of this letter to Stannis, the latter orders the reference to Robert as his "beloved brother" be taken out since he and Robert never loved each other. When Joffrey hears the "rumors" about his parentage as well as the fact that Robert had other children, he realizes that his enemies may think that Robert's bastards have a better claim to the throne than he does. In response to this threat, he orders the City Watch of King's Landing to hunt down and kill all of the bastards. Under the leadership of Lord Commander Janos Slynt, the Watch carry out a city-wide massacre of Robert's bastards, including the infant Barra. The only bastard known to have escaped this slaughter was Gendry.
Cersei claims that at some point prior to his death (possibly as he lay mortally wounded after the boar hunt), Robert specified that he did not want to be buried in the Great Sept of Baelor in King's Landing, where the remains of previous kings from the Targaryen dynasty are interred; instead, as per Robert's instructions he was buried alongside his forefathers at his family's ancestral castle, Storm's End.
Meanwhile, Robert's bastard Gendry - having now survived imprisonment under Gregor Clegane at Harrenhal as well as the massacre back in King's Landing - is now traveling with the outlaw group called the Brotherhood Without Banners who ultimately exchange him to the red priestess Melisandre in exchange for two bags of gold. Unaware of what she intends to do with him, Gendry is initially cordial towards Melisandre who reveals the truth about his father as they pass the Red Keep. They arrive at Dragonstone where Gendry meets his uncle Stannis, who refers to his nephew as "half Robert, half low-born." Melisandre later seduces Gendry before quickly tying him to a bed and leeching his blood as part of a ritual to help Stannis's quest for the Iron Throne. However, Gendry is later freed by Davos Seaworth before Stannis and Melisandre can completely sacrifice him thus preserving Robert's bloodline.
When Joffrey is assassinated at his own wedding feast, Tommen becomes the heir apparent despite the "rumors" about his actual parentage. As he stands vigil with Cersei and Tywin over Joffrey's corpse in the Great Sept of Baelor, Tywin proceeds to grill Tommen as to what makes a good king. At one point, Tommen asks about strength and Tywin refutes this by pointing out that Robert was a paragon of strength but ultimately not a good king. He goes on to cite that during his 17 year rule, Robert only attended a scant three meetings of his own Small Council.
Despite the way Robert treated him during his time as squire, Lancel - who has since abandoned his family name and joined the fanatical movement known as the Sparrows - is haunted by the part he played in Robert's death. He attempts to raise the subject with Cersei at Tywin's funeral but she feigns ignorance and brushes him off. Lancel later confesses to the High Sparrow, who has Cersei arrested. Qyburn later visits Cersei in her cell and informs her of the charges against her, including Robert's murder, which she continues to deny.
Eventually, however, Cersei confesses to her relationship with Lancel to the High Sparrow, saying she was lonely and afraid. When reminded by the High Sparrow that she had a husband, she flippantly argues that Robert was off whoring every chance he got but the High Sparrow shuts her down by saying, "His sins do not pardon your own." He inquires about the "rumors" that her children, including the current king Tommen, were not fathered by Robert. Despite his warning that speaking falsehoods before the gods is a great crime, Cersei continues to lie that her children were in fact fathered by Robert. Though the High Sparrow casts a rather suspicious glance toward Cersei, he relents but informs her that there will still be a trial to ascertain the truth behind the other charges that she continues to deny, including Robert's murder.
In Winterfell, Sansa visits the crypts before her marriage to Ramsay Bolton and finds the feather that Robert had placed in the hands of Lyanna's statue years earlier.
While attempting to auction Jorah Mormont to slavers outside Meereen, Malko mentions Robert's Rebellion, where Jorah fought alongside Robert, and refers to Robert as the "Stag King."
In Braavos, Arya Stark witnesses a play mocking the War of the Five Kings as part of a new assignment from the Faceless Men. The actor playing Robert pokes fun at the king's death and frequently mocks his drinking problem.
As Cersei tortures a captured Unella after killing the rest of the Sparrows, she finally 'confesses' to killing Robert. Meanwhile, Bran Stark discovers the true identity of Jon Snow's mother was none other than Lyanna Stark, who died shortly after giving birth to him. As she lay dying, Lyanna begged her brother Eddard to protect her son out of fear that Robert would surely kill him if he found out that he was actually fathered by Rhaegar Targaryen.
Varys notes that Robert was a more pleasant alternative to Aerys, but Robert had no real wish to be King. Daenerys firmly accuses Varys of disloyalty to her, by hiring assassins to kill her during her pregnancy on Robert's order. Varys forgets or neglects to mention that Ned Stark had told him that as Robert lay dying, he had rescinded his order to kill Daenerys. Qyburn and Cersei later visit the tombs where the dragon skulls are kept. Cersei mentions how Robert removed the skulls from the Throne Room but kept them as trophies. He used to go down there and admire the skulls.
When Gendry meets with Jon at Dragonstone, he introduces himself as the bastard son of Robert, although Davos urging him to conceal his true parentage. Gendry and Jon get along well, as Jon's father (his true parentage still unknown) was good friends with Robert. Gendry accompanies Jon, bringing with him a war hammer with a stag sigil, taking after his father and his father's House.
After Euron and Cersei have sex, he asks her if he was better than "the fat king" in bed. Cersei disdainfully comments that Robert used to have a new whore every night, but still didn't know his way around a woman's body.
Elsewhere, in the crypts beneath Winterfell, Sam tells Jon that he is Aegon Targaryen, the son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark. Jon openly doubts that Ned, the most honorable man he knew, would lie to him, to which Sam replies that Ned did this to protect Jon from Robert murdering him.
When Arya asks Gendry why Melisandre wanted him when Gendry was sold to her by the Brotherhood, Gendry tells Arya that Melisandre told him that he is the bastard son of Robert.
When Jon informs Daenerys of his true parentage and identity, he mentions that Robert would have murdered him had the secret not been kept that Jon was in fact a Targaryen.
Daenerys asks Gendry accusingly whether he is aware that his father took her family's throne and tried to have her murdered. Yet, she does not resent Gendry for his father's deeds and instead legitimizes him as Robert's last trueborn son, the Lord of Storm's End and Lord Paramount of the Stormlands.
Archmaester Ebrose and Grand Maester Sam pen A Song of Ice and Fire, which chronicles the wars following Robert's death.
Robert Baratheon, as a young man, possessed the typical talent for warfare and leadership as his brothers, as expected of Baratheon men, gentler than his brother, Stannis, and less intelligent than Renly. He was a charismatic and fearsome military commander and a formidable warrior, shown by his famous defeat of Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident, pending the death of Aerys Targaryen. His command of his armies at Summerhall showed his strong ability to command and forge relationships with others through war and battle.
Robert was considered a very good man at heart, and he ultimately was, but people often couldn't see this because externally he appeared to be a brutal, heavy-drinking party animal. He had a fondness for strong drinks, women, tourneys, and extravagant parties, which he heavily immersed himself in after the end of his Rebellion against the Mad King- perhaps to drown his grief over having lost Lyanna. People often commented derogatorily that he was a drunken fool (which was true to an extent), and failed sometimes to see past his powerful temper. The death of Lyanna and no battles to fight left him with a profound loss of purpose, causing him to lose his fighting form and grow fat from the excess the crown provided him. He did however mention that the only reason he never abdicated the throne was because he never wanted Joffrey or Cersei to have control of the realm when he was gone, likely realizing his heir and wife would be more ruthless and just as incompetent as he was.
Admittedly, however, Robert proved to be a poor peacetime ruler; a soldier more than anything else, he understood nothing about administration nor cared to learn about it, and frequently ignored the sound advice his Small Council gave him. His behavior in "A Golden Crown" underscores his incompetence as a king: he should have used his authority to put an end to the mutual hostilities between the Starks and Lannisters, before the situation got out of control; instead, he just ordered Ned - not very firmly - to have Tyrion released and to make peace with Jaime, then left the capital for his entertainments. When the Greyjoys rebelled early on in his rule he actually showed brilliance in putting down the rebellion and was rather happy there were battles to fight and win rather than ruling. This indicates he likely would have made a very good Master of War rather than a king.
Robert's greatest strength lay in his ability to win himself allies after battle and his charismatic leadership. Stannis recounts that men who he had fought with during the day would often be drinking, feasting, and laughing with him the same evening. He did have a good sense of humor and took slights well openly on most occasions unless they were towards people he loved, and his temper was fearsome when roused - he resorted to striking Cersei across the face when she insulted his masculinity, but verbally regretted this in private. His charisma also made him loved by many women, and he was noted for his womanizing even while he was betrothed to Lyanna Stark. It was said Lyanna did not appreciate this nor did she expect him to change with marriage to her, which may have pushed her away from him to a degree. His charisma made him an excellent leader of soldiers, but betrayed his incompetence and lack of patience when it came to the actual necessity of detailed planning to rule the realm effectively.
Robert showed some good judgement by choosing Jon Arryn and later Eddard Stark as Hand, but then unintentionally undermined their good administration with his reckless spending on luxuries and entertainments, which eventually bankrupted the Seven Kingdoms and forced him to take loans from the Iron Bank of Braavos and the Lannisters. Robert always dismissed financial matters casually as "counting coppers", according to his brother Renly, ignoring the danger of being in debt both to the Iron Bank and to a man as ruthless and ambitious as Tywin Lannister. It is worth noting that the two men Robert selected as Hand were two men who had been extremely close to him, whom he trusted, as opposed to men like Tywin, who had already proved himself an extremely effective, but unapologetically ruthless Hand; denying Tywin the title of Hand was Robert's way of keeping him (however weakly) in check. Thus, Robert isn't completely prone to errors of judgement. Also, he expressed a certain amount of charisma when he met Ned's children at Winterfell, shaking hands with Robb, complimenting Sansa's beauty and even playfully suggesting that Bran would be a soldier. He also showed a good sense of humor in remarking that Ned had 'gotten fat', before raucously laughing when Ned silently indicated that he had done too. He was also completely capable of laughing at his own expense, as evidenced by this, and when he almost attended the tourney with his belly on display before Ned pointed it out.
Robert's relationship with Eddard Stark brought out the better side of Robert. Since he did not have a particular fondness or relationship with either one of his actual brothers, he considered the Stark lord a surrogate brother.  Indeed both of Robert's actual brothers, Stannis and Renly, each expressed jealousy over Robert's relationship with Ned.  Stannis resented Robert's picking of Ned over him as Hand, this the most recent instance (at the start of the series) that showed his prefereance.  Renly, while speaking with his lover Loras, mentioned with a slight tone of resentment and wistfullness that Robert would never do anything to Ned as he loved him. Ned was the only person who could genuinely counsel Robert on any subject, and the only person he appeared to want to listen to, since he seemed extremely impatient with anybody else, especially his wife (something he didn't make any attempt to hide). Robert trusted Ned deeply and had a very strong sense of empathy and reason for him, assuring him that he only asked Ned to be Hand because he needed him - Robert openly told Ned that he was a loyal friend, showing his extreme admiration of Ned's character. In addition to this, Robert had a deep personal love for Lyanna Stark, Ned's sister, and often lamented about her death, but this lamenting often gave way to Robert intensely tirading about his hatred for the Targaryens - he called Rhaegar Targaryen a monster and scorned him as he believed that he had raped Lyanna, and even after he had vanquished Rhaegar on the Trident, his brutal hatred of the surviving Targaryens continued. Robert's love for Lyanna went to such a vast extent that, on their wedding night, he visited Cersei in their bed (critically drunk) and openly mistook her for Lyanna, showing that he was unable to accept that Lyanna was apart from him. It is worth noting that Robert's first priority once he arrived at Winterfell was to visit the crypts of Winterfell and pay his respects to Lyanna's tomb, even though he, his family and entourage had been riding for ages and he could have paid his respects at any time.
Despite plunging into the temptations of drinking, feasting, gambling and suchlike, Robert Baratheon was not a stupid man in some respects. Even years after his climactic rebellion and his famous defeat of Rhaegar Targaryen and later the ironborn, Robert still had a sound mind when it came to military matters; he was still able to precisely recite the strategies of the Dothraki if they invaded and provided statistical arguments as to why the Dothraki, with Viserys Targaryen as the figurehead, would eventually gain the upper hand. He also understood that the priorities of the realm lay with political power rather than actual stability, lamenting that their purpose had died along with King Aerys. When Gregor Clegane attacked his brother during a tourney, Robert was quick to furiously end the fight by commanding them to stop, rather than getting one of his Kingsguard to do it (however, he did not reprimand the Mountain for nearly killing Loras Tyrell in this incident). He was also able to recognize and lament for his mistakes, and apologized to Joffrey that he had never been a particularly good parent. Also, on his deathbed, he begged for Eddard to help him in some way that Robert himself had been unable to, and finally let go of his hatred for the Targaryens when he asked Eddard to do what he could to protect Daenerys Targaryen from being assassinated, accepting that she did not have to suffer for her father and brother's actions.
Robert had a tendency for being cruel or harsh towards Jaime Lannister, referring to him personally as Kingslayer (even though it was Aerys Jaime had killed, enabling Robert to take the throne) and laughingly mocking his status as Tywin Lannister's son forced to guard his extravagant king. He also had the gall to mock Jaime's execution of the Mad King, only to be shocked into silence when Jaime coldly reminded him of Aerys's madness. Robert could be smug, and arranged for Jaime to be on guard when Robert was entertaining his whores, knowing that Jaime (closer than anyone to Cersei) would be aware that this was a vicious insult. However, Robert at least suggested out loud to Eddard Stark that he would even consider naming Jaime as Hand if Ned refused to retake the position. He was also emotionally abusive toward Cersei and had physically struck her at least once, though he did feel remorse about it, saying it wasn't a kingly thing to do. Robert had a habit of taking out his frustration on his squires, often through petty and often cruel jokes at their expense.
Robert Baratheon is rumored to have fathered over a dozen bastard children over the years. In her youth Cersei visited a woods witch who foretold that she would have three children (Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen), while Robert would have "twenty" (though it isn't clear if she meant exactly, or was using the number broadly). Those bastards who have been introduced in the TV series so far include:
It is unknown how many of Robert's bastards have been present in King's Landing during the massacre, and how many of those have been killed; only five (including Barra) are actually shown to be killed on-screen. Thus, in addition to Gendry, there are allegedly fourteen more of Robert's bastards, and some of them may still be alive.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Robert is in his mid-thirties when the events of the books begin. He is jovial and fun-loving, fond of battle, women, and drink.
Robert is not a POV character. His actions are narrated and interpreted through the eyes of other characters, mainly Eddard Stark.
As a young man, Robert was a formidable warrior, noted for his chivalry, sense of honor and immense charisma. He won several loyal Targaryen bannermen to his cause through strength of personality alone. Very tall and incredibly muscular, Robert was considered one of the most attractive men in Westeros, desired by many maidens in the realm. However, after becoming king, Robert let himself go somewhat, becoming fat, soft and indolent, though still capable of great generosity to his friends. Robert has also become more bitter following Lyanna's death and his unhappy marriage to Cersei, despite their multiple children. A great deal of people lost respect for Robert after he won the Iron Throne, dismissing him as a sot, a brute and a drunken fool, Eddard Stark being one of the few exceptions.
Despite being a formidable warrior, Robert has been an indifferent jouster; during tourneys he preferred the mêlée, where he could beat men bloody with a blunt axe or a hammer.
Robert's grandmother was princess Rhaelle Targaryen, the youngest daughter of Aegon V. The maesters claim the blood ties between the Baratheons and the Targaryens have given Robert the right to the Iron Throne and in fact is one of the reasons he was able to, although Robert would have preferred to say that it was his warhammer and him winning his rebellion that won him the crown.
Robert is rumored to have fathered over a dozen bastard children over the years, though exactly how many he has is unknown even to Robert. Cersei once visited a maegi in her youth who predicted that Cersei would have three children (Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen) and that Robert would have sixteen - the prophecy about Cersei's children turned out to be true, but it is unknown if the prophecy about Robert's children turned out to be accurate (the TV show rounded this number up from sixteen to twenty, possibly because sixteen sounded too specific given that it won't introduce as many of them as the novels did). Robert had a voracious sexual appetite since he was a teenager, however, and he had sex with innumerable whores and servant girls for over twenty years before his death, so tracking down all of his bastards would be an exceedingly difficult task. Varys himself can confirm of at least eight bastard children which Robert fathered over the years, about half of the number Maggie predicted.
Robert never cared much about his bastards. According to Stannis, he liked the making of children well enough, but after birth they were a bother to him.
Gendry, Edric Storm, Mya Stone, plus the deceased Barra and twins at Casterly Rock only account for six bastards, however, when Varys said he knew of at least eight. When Arya and Gendry first encounter the Brotherhood Without Banners in the Riverlands, they pass through the town of Stoney Sept, where they encounter a dark-haired prostitute named Bella who claims to be a bastard of Robert. Bella states that she is the daughter of a prostitute that Robert had sex with as he was passing through the town during the Battle of the Bells, and that she was named "Bella" for the battle. She does generally resemble Robert and her age matches her story of when Robert would have had sex with her mother, but her claim cannot be definitely confirmed.
The TV series has not introduced any other bastards besides Gendry, even going so far as to combine parts of Edric Storm's storyline - being taken to Dragonstone - with Gendry's storyline in Season 3. It is unclear if the TV series means to imply that Gendry is Robert's only surviving bastard (given Joffrey's purge and the overall omission of Mya, this certainly seems to be the implication), but either way the focus given to Gendry is much greater in the TV continuity.
In Fire & Blood, an ancient prophecy is mentioned: "When the hammer shall fall upon the dragon, a new king shall arise, and none shall stand before him." The prophecy clearly refers to Robert, and specifically to the battle in which he killed Rhaegar with his war hammer and soon afterwards became the king.
The symbol of the office: a pin depicting a crowned hand.
The Hand of the King or Hand of the Queen, in cases of a ruling female monarch, or simply the King's Hand or Queen's Hand, is the most powerful appointed position in the Six Kingdoms, second only to the monarch in authority and responsibility. The Hand is the monarch's closest advisor, appointed and authorized to make decisions in their name. The Hand is the highest-ranking member of the Small Council, and leads meetings of the council as proxy for the monarch when they are absent.
A hand is often used as the symbol of the Hand of the King, such as on the wax seals of letters. Hands of the King often wear a badge of office shaped like a hand, such as a brooch or a gold necklace with a repeated hand design.
During the reign of strong and able monarchs, the Hand is the chief agent for coordinating and carrying out their plans. During the reign of weak or ineffectual monarchs, the Hand is often the real power behind the throne, and the man chiefly responsible for holding the realm together. Such was the case when Lord Tywin Lannister ably served as Hand of the King for twenty years while King Aerys II Targaryen spiraled into insanity, or when Lord Jon Arryn served as Hand of the King for seventeen years under King Robert Baratheon, who while an able soldier was not an able politician or statesman.
Tywin and Tyrion Lannister were the only two people to serve non-consecutive terms as Hand. Tywin served as Hand to Aerys II, and again to Kings Joffrey Baratheon and Tommen Baratheon. Tyrion served as an acting Hand to Joffrey, and was made the permanent Hand to Queen Daenerys Targaryen and later King Bran the Broken.
On several occasions in history, a Grand Maester has also been appointed as Hand of the King, serving in both offices at once.
The Hand of the King is formally addressed as Lord Hand and resides in the Tower of the Hand at the Red Keep along with his family and household.
Ser Otto Hightower has been serving as Hand of the King to King Viserys I Targaryen for quite some time, and has been in the office since the days of Jaehaerys I Targaryen, following the death of the previous Hand, Prince Baelon. However, he is dismissed from office at the urging of Princess Rhaenyra, after King Viserys concludes that Otto is being led by self-interest rather than duty.
After Ser Otto is dismissed, Lord Lyonel Strong of Harrenhal, the Master of Laws, is appointed as the new Hand of the King. He performs ably in his role for a decade, and King Viserys appreciates his advice. However, House Strong is threatened by potential scandal, as his son, Ser Harwin Strong, is the biological father of Princess Rhaenyra's three sons; Jacaerys, Lucerys, and Joffrey. Queen Alicent Hightower speaks of the rumors once more after the birth of Prince Joffrey, and Ser Harwin savagely beats Ser Criston Cole in the training yard for pitting Jacaerys against the older and stronger Prince Aegon. Because of Ser Harwin's actions, Lord Lyonel informs the king that he intends to resign his post, speaking of the troubles that his house is facing, although he cannot fully admit to the specific issues he refers to. King Viserys thus grants Lord Strong leave to escort Ser Harwin home to Harrenhal, where he will take up his role as heir to the castle. When Queen Alicent speaks of the situation to his younger son, Larys, and bemoaning that her father, Ser Otto, is no longer at court to promote her interests. After learning about this, Larys has the tongue of a convict cut out and has him travel to Harrenhal, starting a fire that kills both Lord Lyonel and Ser Harwin.
Larys delivers the news of his father and brother's deaths to Queen Alicent. She is horrified to learn that he has had them killed, but she responds in the affirmative when he asks if she will write to her father. By the time Lady Laena Velaryon's funeral is held on Driftmark, Ser Otto has been reappointed as Hand. Due to Viserys's failing health, Otto and his daughter Alicent gain greater control of court, and six years later they are handling all matters of governance in the name of the king. Otto initially sits the Iron Throne to hear the petitions of claimant successors to Driftmark, though is surprised when Viserys arrives in the throne room to settle the matter of Velaryon succession.
Following Robert's Rebellion, King Robert Baratheon appointed Jon Arryn as Hand of the King. Seventeen years later, the elderly Lord Arryn dies in King's Landing. Robert travels north to Winterfell to ask Eddard Stark to replace him. Eddard is reluctant until he receives intelligence from Jon's wife (and his own sister-in-law), Lysa Arryn, that the Lannister family murdered Jon as part of a wider conspiracy. Eddard then accepts Robert's proposal, hoping to learn the truth about Jon's death. Much later, Lysa revealed that she herself poisoned Jon, under the instruction of Littlefinger, and then sent the letter falsely accusing House Lannister for the murder.
On the Kingsroad, Eddard is told that Daenerys has married a Dothraki warlord, whose army may pose a potential threat to the realm. Robert suggests assassinating her, but Eddard dissuades him by noting the moral implications and pointing out that the Dothraki do not have any ships.
Lord Eddard chairs the Small Council meeting with Robert Baratheon's crested chair empty.
Upon arriving in King's Landing, Eddard takes up his role as King's Hand by chairing meetings of the Small Council. He learns that, despite Jon Arryn's prudence, Robert has put the realm more than six million gold crowns in debt. Eddard also hears reports that the City Watch is struggling to control the influx of visitors to witness the king's tournament in honor of Eddard's appointment. When Robert announces that Daenerys is pregnant and must now die, Eddard argues against the decision. When Robert orders it done anyway, Eddard resigns the Handship.
After being injured in an altercation with Jaime, Eddard is reinstated by Robert on the condition he makes peace with the Lannisters. He agrees, but then learns that the Lannister bannerman the Mountain has been burning farms in the Riverlands. He sends Ser Beric Dondarrion and a hundred men to arrest Ser Gregor and orders that Tywin present himself in King's Landing to answer for the actions of his bannerman. The other members of the Small Council consider this act rash. As well as Hand of the King, Eddard is appointed Regent and Protector of the Realm by the dying King Robert after the latter's wounding by a boar. However, Eddard is stripped of this position by order of Queen Cersei and the newly-raised King Joffrey Baratheon when he tries to expose the truth of Joffrey's birth.
Joffrey then names Tywin, his grandfather and former Hand of the King to the Mad King twenty years earlier, as his new Hand. However, Tywin is too busy fighting the Stark army under Robb Stark in the Riverlands, so sends his son Tyrion to act in his stead. Furious at Cersei's incompetence in allowing Joffrey to execute Eddard, Tywin orders Tyrion to take the situation in the capital in hand, and if necessary, to mount heads on spikes.
Upon Tyrion's arrival at King's Landing, his sister disputes his appointment as Acting Hand, but is forced to accept it. Tyrion sets about putting affairs in order. He strips Lord Janos Slynt of his lands and titles and exiles him to the Wall, replacing him as Commander of the City Watch with Bronn. Tyrion then exposes Grand Maester Pycelle as being in Cersei's pocket and strips him of his position on the Small Council. He also forges an alliance with House Martell of Dorne by pledging Princess Myrcella to their youngest son in marriage, to Cersei's fury. Tyrion also sends Littlefinger to the Stormlands to treat with REnly and make a secret offer to Catelyn, that Tyrion will release Sansa and Arya (whom he does not hold) to her in return for Jaime's release.
Tyrion also attempts to restrain Joffrey's cruelty by being kind to Sansa and attempting to distract Joffrey with two prostitutes. The plan backfires when Joffrey abuses the girls to send a message to Tyrion. However, Tyrion succeeds in blackmailing his cousin Lancel into betraying Cersei and feeding him intelligence about her actions.
Tyrion attempts to mend fences with Cersei and work with her in preparing the city for Stannis's attack. However, Cersei refuses to talk to Tyrion, even for the city's defense, insisting that Joffrey will handle it personally. Tyrion learns from Lancel that Joffrey's plan is to use wildfire to defend the city. Tyrion heads off the plan - which could burn down the city by accident - by recruiting Wisdom Hallyne of the Alchemists' Guild to his cause. Tyrion believes that he is doing a good job as Hand, but is shocked when he sees a street protest where he is named a 'demon monkey' and blamed for Joffrey's excesses.
House Martell accept Tyrion's offer of an alliance and Myrcella leaves the city for Dorne. However, after waving her off the royal party is attacked on the streets of King's Landing by the smallfolk of the city, who are starting to starve as food supplies to the city are interrupted by the war. Joffrey fans the flames of the riot by ordering his soldiers to kill the rioters. Tyrion, furious, slaps Joffrey and attempts to restore order.
While sailing to attack Kings Landing in the Battle of the Blackwater, Stannis tells Davos that should they succeed in taking the city and overthrowing Joffrey, he intends to name Davos as his Hand of the King.
Tyrion oversees the defense of King's Landing during the Battle of the Blackwater, using wildfire trap to destroy a significant portion of the enemy's forces. After the tide of battle turns in favor of Stannis Baratheon and morale runs low, Tyrion personally leads the city defenders into battle.
Tyrion is stripped of his power after Tywin arrives at King's Landing, relieving Tyrion from his position as acting Hand. In a ceremony in which Joffrey declares him Savior of the City, Tywin is also proclaimed as Hand of the King. Varys notes to Tyrion that he will not be credited for his actions as Hand, but notes that those who are aware of his role are grateful for it.
Tywin, having resumed his position as Hand of the King, holds a new Small Council meeting. To emphasize his dominance, Tywin has the location of the meeting moved to a new chamber, located just outside of his own, in the Tower of the Hand.
After his release from prison, Davos was named Hand of the King for Stannis.
After Joffrey is slain, his younger brother and heir, Tommen Baratheon, becomes the new King and names Tywin as his Hand. Shortly afterwards, Tywin is killed, leaving the position vacant.
During the first session of the Small Council since Tywin's death, Cersei assumes control until her son, King Tommen, appoints a new Hand of the King once he comes of age. Both Mace Tyrell and Pycelle attempt to convince Cersei to name them acting Hand until Tommen appoints his own, but she rebuffs them both.
After Cersei's arrest by the High Sparrow, Pycelle sends word to Casterly Rock and offers the position of Hand of the King to Kevan Lannister. Kevan promptly returns to the capital to take up the affairs of the realm.
With the death of Stannis and the end of his claim to the Iron Throne during the Battle of Winterfell, Davos's position as Hand can no longer be considered valid.
Kevan continues in the role of Hand of the King until he is killed in the Destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor. His king, Tommen, commits suicide shortly thereafter. After Cersei seizes the Iron Throne for herself, Qyburn crowns her as Queen of the Andals and the First Men and Protector of the Seven Kingdoms. He wears the Hand brooch, suggesting he fills this role for her.
In the rechristened Bay of Dragons, Daenerys appoints Tyrion as her official Hand of the Queen, in recognition of his loyalty and good governance of Meereen in her absence. Daenerys presents Tyrion with a replica of the Hand brooch, apologizing that it might not be accurate as she'd never seen the original herself (it appears to be made of silver or iron instead of gold or bronze). Tyrion proudly wears the brooch as Daenerys at last launches her invasion of Westeros.
Tyrion settles in his new position as Hand to Daenerys, organising the strategics of the war for Westeros.
Daenerys threatens to remove Tyrion as Hand of the Queen over his repeated failings after Jaime arrives at Winterfell, informing them that Cersei doesn't plan to actually send the Lannister armies north. Jorah Mormont later advises Daenerys to forgive Tyrion, however.
After the Great War is won, Daenerys returns to Dragonstone with her forces shortly before the Battle of King's Landing. Daenerys informs Tyrion that his brother was captured trying to cross their lines, and warns him that his next mistake will be his last one.
Following the Battle of King's Landing, Daenerys orders Tyrion arrested for treason — specifically for freeing Jaime. In disgust over Daenerys burning down the city, Tyrion tears off his brooch and throws it on the ground, resigning as her Hand. He is given a trial at the council meeting at the Dragonpit after the assassination of Daenerys Targaryen, where he convinces the leaders of the Great Houses to elect Bran Stark as the new King. Bran promptly names Tyrion as his Hand of the King, sparing him from punishment. A few days later, Tyrion presides over the Small Council meeting held shortly after Bran's election, once again wearing the Hand brooch gifted by Daenerys.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the position of "Hand of the King" is generally comparable to the roles of Prime Minister, Lord Chancellor, and similar offices in real-life medieval monarchies. The Hand's badge of office always includes the design of a hand, though each Hand is free to develop his own specific symbol. The TV series vaguely implies that the official symbol is a brooch with a hand on it, though this might have just been Jon Arryn's personal Hand symbol, and Ned Stark simply reused it without bothering to design his own. In both the books and TV series, Tyrion Lannister also wore a gold necklace made of interlocking hands linked into a chain – in the books, this is the necklace that Shae is wearing upon her death. Hands after Ned Stark in the TV series apparently just picked up the Hand brooch from each previous Hand (that, and the TV series already made the prop, and it's a familiar visual designator for the audience).
A popular saying is, "What the King dreams, the Hand builds," but among the smallfolk and particularly during the reign of inept and weak kings, a less polite saying is, "The King eats, and the Hand takes the shit." The Hand of the King is often the one who has to clean up after the mess caused by inept kings. The TV series slightly changed this, to "The King shits, and the Hand wipes."
The events of the story are set in motion by the death of the Hand of the King, Lord Jon Arryn, apparently from natural causes. King Robert Baratheon travels to Winterfell and asks Lord Eddard Stark to replace Jon. Eddard is doubtful, not wishing to travel far from his homeland and his family, but eventually agrees when an anonymous message claims that Jon Arryn was murdered. Eddard decides to agree to the King's offer so he can investigate and determine the truth of what has happened and if it poses a danger to Robert or the realm.
Under Aegon I Targaryen, the Conqueror:
Under Aenys I Targaryen, eldest son of Aegon I:
Under Maegor I Targaryen, the Cruel:
Under Jaehaerys I Targaryen, the Old King:
Under Viserys I Targaryen, the Young King:
Under Daeron I Targaryen, the Young Dragon:
Under Baelor I Targaryen, the Blessed King:
Under Daeron II Targaryen, the Good King:
Under Aerys I Targaryen:
Under Maekar I Targaryen:
Under Aegon V Targaryen:
Under Aerys II Targaryen, the Mad King:
Under Robert Baratheon, the Usurper:
Under Joffrey Baratheon:
Under Tommen Baratheon:
During the brief period in which Renly Baratheon rebelled and laid claimed to the Iron Throne he named Lord Mace Tyrell - father of his new wife Margaery and his lover Ser Loras - as his Hand of the King. The TV series made no mention of Mace's appointment.
While Daenerys rules Meereen, she does not appoint anyone as her Hand. Following her departure, her loyalists form a ruling council to oversee Meereen till she returns, and Ser Barristan Selmy is appointed to be the Queen's Hand. Selmy is reluctant to accept that office, perhaps because it was not Daenerys who appointed him, but he officiates as the Hand because he knows someone must take charge under the current circumstances - the city is surrounded by enemies.
Neither Robb Stark of the North nor Balon Greyjoy of the Iron Islands appoint their own "Hand of the King" because they are each fighting to secede their respective regions and set them up as independent kingdoms, both of which had no traditional office of a "Hand of the King" as it is particular to the government of the Iron Throne itself. During the Kingsmoot that follows Balon Greyjoy's death, Asha Greyjoy tells her uncle Victarion that she will support him as king if he names her his Hand, but he rejects her offer.
In the books, Stannis Baratheon names Davos Seaworth his new Hand of the King after his release from the dungeons of Dragonstone, after it is discovered that his current Hand, Alester Florent (uncle of his own wife Selyse Baratheon) was trying to negotiate a surrender to the Lannisters after the defeat of Stannis' army at the Battle of the Blackwater. Alester wrote a letter he planned to send to Lord Tywin - without Stannis' knowledge or consent - offering peace and suggesting that Stannis would give up his claim to the Iron Throne, swear fealty to Joffrey, and take back his denouncement of Joffrey's parentage, but would remain Lord of Dragonstone and Storm's End, and that the Florents would get their castle, Brightwater Keep, back. In addition, he offered Shireen's hand in marriage to Tommen Baratheon. Alester had no intention of treason, but innocently felt he was doing what was best for Stannis, because these were the best terms he could hope for after his loss at the Blackwater. However, Stannis was unwilling to even negotiate with his enemies, but offering to marry off his only child to the Lannisters was an even greater insult - particularly given that he considers Tommen to be an abomination borne of incest. Alester is thrown in the dungeon as well and during his brief time as Davos' cellmate explains what transpired. Although Alester acted of folly and had no malicious intent, Stannis - harsh in his judgment as ever - believes that Alester feigned loyalty while acting against him, while Davos, out of earnest loyalty, told him hard truths he didn't want to hear, so he releases Davos and promotes him to be his new Hand of the King - to the consternation of some of his other remaining bannermen from more prestigious noble Houses.
In the TV series, during the episode "Blackwater," Stannis says he intends to name Davos as his Hand after they win the battle, but they lose the battle, Davos is lost at sea, and when he returns, he quarrels with Melisandre and is thrown in the dungeon. Thus there was never a point when he could have actively assumed the office. However, in the Season 3 finale "Mhysa," after Davos is released from the dungeon, he starts reading through letters the castle has received (despite his difficulty from only recently learning how to read), and tells Shireen that he has to do this drudgery now that he is her father's Hand "again" - which doesn't match the previous order of events in the TV series, in which Stannis intended to name Davos his Hand but never had the chance before. It's possible Davos was just speaking loosely about Stannis' earlier intent to promote him, generally referring to being back in her father's service now that he's out of the dungeon. Either way, Davos is Stannis's Hand after he is released from Dragonstone's dungeons.
Jon Connington, the guardian of the presumed-dead Aegon Targaryen, the son of Rhaegar and Elia, styles himself "Hand of the True King", although Aegon has not been crowned yet.
The High Septon conducting the marriage between King Joffrey Baratheon and Lady Margaery Tyrell.
Marriage is a socially, and typically religiously, recognized union between people that establishes legal rights and obligations between them and their children. These often include various inheritance rights for children produced within a marriage to the property, wealth, and titles of their parents. Marriage customs vary across Westeros, Essos, and the rest of the known world.
The TV series released a behind-the-scenes video featurette about marriage in Westeros (click this link to view), in which George R.R. Martin stressed that as in the real-life Middle Ages, it is by far the norm for the nobility in Westeros to enter into arranged marriages, not for love but to secure political alliances, saying: "Marriage was a way to bind two families together, it was a form of political alliance, and royal marriages are one of the ultimate examples of this."
In noble families, marriages are almost always arranged by the heads of the Houses and often seal political alliances. Marriage makes both noble families kin, binding them together, and thus obligates them to provide military aid to each other in case of conflicts with other noble families.
Historically, some marriages signaled the political union of two previously independent kingdoms - such as when House Targaryen and House Martell intermarried to unite Dorne with the rest of the Seven Kingdoms, a hundred years before the War of the Five Kings. It is also common for a victorious conqueror to marry a daughter from the royal line of a defeated kingdom to solidify his claim to its lands. When House Stark defeated the last Marsh King in ancient times, the King in the North married a daughter of the Marsh King to secure rule over his lands in the Neck. Such marriages also frequently occurred during the Andal Invasion 6,000 years ago: House Lannister, House Tyrell, House Tully, and many other major Houses actually originated during the time of the First Men, but intermarried with the Andal invaders by offering up their daughters in political marriages. A more recent example is during the Targaryen Conquest, when Orys Baratheon married the daughter of the last Storm King from House Durrandon, to solidify his claim over the Stormlands.
The marriage between King Robert and Queen Cersei wasn't made for love, but to secure a political alliance, which is typical among the nobility in Westeros.
Most members of the Great Houses of Westeros during the timeframe of the narrative entered into arranged marriages: Catelyn Tully and Eddard Stark, Lysa Tully and Jon Arryn, Robert Baratheon and Cersei Lannister, Stannis Baratheon and Selyse Florent, and during the narrative Margaery Tyrell and her successive husbands (Renly Baratheon, Joffrey Baratheon, and Tommen Baratheon). Sometimes with great work and effort over many years, arranged marriages turn into strong relationships - Catelyn herself championed this aspect of her marriage to Ned when trying to urge her son Robb to enter into an arranged marriage. While they may not grow to love each other, couples in arranged marriages are often able to maintain at least a functional public partnership. Many dread being trapped in miserable arranged marriages, such as Robert and Cersei, or Lysa's loveless marriage to Jon, a good man but old enough to be her father.
Tywin Lannister married out of love to his first cousin Joanna but hypocritically tried to force his own children into arranged marriages.
Only two major political leaders in Westeros in the current generation married for love: Tywin Lannister and Doran Martell.
Tywin married his own first cousin Joanna Lannister out of love, even though she brought him no new lands or allies. He actually loved Joanna dearly and it was said she brought out the best in him, and her death giving birth to Tyrion left him heartbroken and embittered. Later in life, Tywin hypocritically tried to force all three of his children into loveless arranged marriages, succeeding with Cersei and Tyrion. Doran Martell is another lord who married for love, but as happens in real life, he and his wife eventually fell out of love. In the novels, he wed the noblewoman Mellario of Norvos, but after several years she found the customs of Dorne to be so foreign that she became estranged from Doran and moved back to Norvos (divorce does not exist in Westeros), leaving Doran with a heavy heart.
Brynden Tully, Catelyn's uncle, infamously refused to enter into an arranged marriage his brother set up for him with Bethany Redwyne - despite the fact that all agreed it was a great match, as she was beautiful, wealthy, and it would gain strong allies for the Tullys. Brynden quarreled often with his brother about this over the years and became known as "the Blackfish" as a result. It is not unusual for lords who are privately homosexual to still marry women, such as Renly Baratheon, purely to secure a political alliance and produce heirs ("love" is not generally a major reason for marriage among the nobility in Westeros).
Divorce doesn't exist in the Faith of the Seven, but Sansa's marriage to Tyrion can be annulled upon request - it was obviously forced against her will, and Tyrion never consummated it.
"Divorce" does not exist in Westeros, though annulment does. Generally, any marriage can be annulled (the more common term is "set aside"), whether consummated or not, even a marriage of many years with children; even kings' marriage can be annulled, as indicated by Cersei's words in the novels (A Game of Thrones, Bran II). The political applications of such act, however, could be very negative, thus married people who have grown to dislike each other or never liked each other from the beginning, do not need an annulment (providing they do not intend to marry someone else); they can simply live separately, like Daemon Targaryen and Rhea Royce (in "House of the Dragon"), Doran Martell and his wife Mellario (in the novels).
An annulment can be requested from the hierarchy of the Faith of the Seven due to several factors, such as if the marriage was never consummated (the couple never had sex), if it is later discovered that one of the two was already married (bigamous marriage is forbidden), or if it is argued that the marriage was made under duress, because officially no one can be forced to take a holy vow against their will.
In practice, the daughters of noble Houses are often pressured by their families to marry against their will, but forcibly marrying a woman held hostage against her family's wishes is generally seen as grounds for annulment. For example, Sansa was obviously a prisoner of the Lannisters when she was forced to marry Tyrion, against both her will and that of her entire family, and the marriage was never consummated, so Sansa could theoretically request an annulment from the Faith (she never did that in the show).
It is unknown on what grounds Tywin had Tyrion's first marriage to Tysha annulled, but it can be assumed that Tywin wouldn't let minor technicalities stand in his way, and whoever performed the annulment wouldn't risk Tywin's wrath.
While going through some records at the Citadel, Gilly makes a shocking discovery that Rhaegar Targaryen had his marriage to his lawful wife Elia Martell annulled by the High Septon and remarried in Dorne.
It is unknown have annulment and/or divorce function under other religions, specifically the Old Gods in the North and the Drowned God religion of the Iron Islands (or if any world religions even have voluntary "divorce" in them). The religion of the Old Gods doesn't even have a formal priesthood to ask permission from.
Women from noble Houses in Westeros often take on their husband's surname - though this is not automatic and many do not. Essentially, if a noblewoman "marries up" into a more powerful noble family, she will tend to shift to using the name of her husband's House. Conversely, if a noblewoman marries into a less powerful noble House (i.e., if she is one of the younger daughters in the family, not able to secure as good of a match) then she will often retain the use of her original family name, to remind everyone of her social and political ties. If their two families are of roughly equal power - such as if they are both from Great Houses that rule entire kingdoms - then the situation is more variable, and is more dependent on personal choice.
Only the nobility in Westeros even use surnames - the smallfolk do not have last names at all.
A primary example is Cersei Lannister - rarely if ever called "Cersei Baratheon", despite marrying King Robert Baratheon. She apparently kept using her maiden name to remind everyone around her at the royal court that her own family (specifically her father Tywin) were the main financial supporters of Robert's reign, and he was dependent on them. Similarly, Margaery Tyrell is rarely called "Margaery Baratheon" even though she married three men named "Baratheon" in succession: Renly, then Renly's (alleged) nephew Joffrey, then Joffrey's younger brother Tommen. When Margaery was first introduced in Season 2, she had already married Renly off-screen, yet she was still pervasively referred to as "Margaery Tyrell" - even after her third marriage to Tommen Baratheon, the only one that was actually consummated. This is because Tommen and the Lannisters are now dependent on the financial support of House Tyrell, just as the Baratheons were once dependent on the Lannisters. Before Robert's Rebellion, Elia Martell was the wife of Crown Prince Rhaegar Targaryen and the mother of his children, but she was still uniformly referred to as "Elia Martell" - though while Elia technically married up into the royal line, the Martells only entered the realm through peaceful marriage-alliance, styling their rules as "Princes" instead of Lords. Therefore it seems possible that the Martells considered themselves equal to the Targaryens, not a lowly vassal House marrying up into the royal family.
Other times this can be more fluid: Catelyn Stark was born "Catelyn Tully", yet both House Tully and House Stark are Great Houses. The Starks were considered to be a more powerful and prestigious House than the Tullys (the Stark dynasty were kings in ancient times, while the Tullys never ruled as kings), plus Catelyn came to greatly love her husband Eddard Stark, so perhaps this was simply out of deference to him. Either way, she is still often referred to as "Catelyn Stark" or "Catelyn Tully" interchangeably. In contrast, her younger sister Lysa also married into another Great House when she wed Jon Arryn, and in the present day Lysa is pervasively known as "Lysa Arryn" - so perhaps it had more to do with the fact that the Tullys, while a Great House, weren't considered as prestigious (the Arryns were also kings once). Alternatively it really might just have been down to personal preference.
Children usually take the name of their father's House, regardless of whether their mother continues to be known by her maiden name or not. This is probably due to the male-preference primogeniture laws in most of the Seven Kingdoms. Dorne, however, is apparently an exception, given that unique among the rest it follows gender-blind primogeniture laws. Doran Martell is the current Prince of Dorne, but he inherited the title from his mother, who herself inherited rule from her own parents. Doran, Oberyn, and Elia therefore used their mother's surname, apparently because it was more prestigious. It is unclear if this would happen in the rest of Westeros (i.e., in the novels, Tywin's younger sister Genna Lannister married a younger son of House Frey, long before they took over from the Tullys, yet their children all used the surname "Frey", not "Lannister").
The wedding ceremonies that mark the beginning of a marriage vary between different religions and cultures.
The royal wedding in the Great Sept of Baelor between King Joffrey Baratheon and Margaery Tyrell, conducted by the High Septon - a very extravagant example of a wedding ceremony in the Faith of the Seven.
The Faith of the Seven has large wedding ceremonies filled with numerous prayers, customs, and vows. The ceremony is officiated by a septon, one of the male priests of the Faith (it is unclear if septas, female priests, can also officiate at weddings). Wedding ceremonies are typically held within a sept, the religious structures of the Faith. Septs are seven-sided buildings, with statues or icons of each of the Seven along each wall: weddings are conducted with the bride, groom, and septon standing between the statues of the Father and the Mother. The members of both families and guests form an audience to witness the ceremony, separated by an aisle in the middle (typically, the bride's family on the left side behind her, and the groom's family on the right side behind him). The audience and the couple face forward towards the space between the two statues, while the septon faces the audience and the couple.
There are several other events before the main ceremony, which usually occurs around mid-day and is followed by a feast lasting into the night. Sometimes a wedding breakfast is held at which gifts are presented to the bride and groom. This wedding breakfast was seen at the wedding of Margaery and Joffrey but not the wedding of Edmure and Roslin. The novels actually mention that it is specifically a local custom in the Reach, the region ruled by House Tyrell, to hold a wedding breakfast at which gifts are presented, before the main ceremony, which might explain why this wasn't seen with Edmure Tully and Roslin Frey (who are from the Riverlands). Each of the Seven Kingdoms may in fact have its own local wedding customs that are slightly different from each other. The novels also explain that there are two wedding breakfasts held separately: one is attended only by the bride and the women of her family, the other by the groom's entire family (men and women) and men from the bride's family. This explains why, in the TV version, when Joffrey is presented with gifts at his wedding breakfast, Margaery and Olenna Tyrell are not present (though Joffrey's mother Cersei and Margaery's father Mace Tyrell are present).
The full wedding ceremony in the Faith of the Seven is a long event filled with many prayers and vows; it is quite long compared to the simple exchange of vows in the wedding ceremonies of those who follow the Old Gods of the Forest. As a result, the TV series has never shown a single wedding ceremony from start to finish, but has skipped around in time for several wedding scenes to show several different key points from the ceremony, i.e., some of the vows said in the wedding scene between Margaery Tyrell and Joffrey Baratheon are skipped in the subsequent wedding between Margaery Tyrell and Tommen Baratheon. The full wedding ceremony might last over an hour, but the TV series only has time to show about two to three minutes' worth of clips from each one.
As of the end of Season 5, the TV series has presented five wedding ceremonies from the Faith of the Seven:
The Tyrion/Sansa wedding was only shown up to the point that the groom cloaked the bride before the camera cut away. Only a brief excerpt from the Margaery/Tommen wedding was shown on-camera, the point when the couple recites their vows. The Robb/Talisa wedding was a small private ceremony held in secret, and thus in-universe didn't include many steps.
Piecing together different points from different wedding ceremonies seen in the TV series, a general description of what the full wedding ceremony is like can be compiled:
First, the officiating septon recites several prayers to the audience, including readings from their holy text, The Seven-Pointed Star. During these initial prayers, the groom waits with the septon between the statues, while the bride waits outside of the room.
Next, the bride is ceremonially presented to the groom, by being led into the room and down the aisle to him. The bride is typically led and presented by her father. In all observed cases, they walk down the aisle side by side, taking each other by the arm, with the father on the right and the bride on the left - then after being presented the couple stands in front of the septon with the bride still on the left and now the groom and the right. If the bride's father is dead, her brothers or other close male family member often lead her down the aisle instead (it is unclear what happens if a bride has no close male relatives and the current head of her family is her mother, etc.) After walking down the aisle, the father silently presents the bride to the groom - without exchanging any dialogue (unlike the wedding ceremony for the Old Gods of the Forest). Sometimes the bride wears a veil which is pulled back when her father presents her to the groom (Roslin Frey), but many brides simply forego wearing a veil (Tyrion and Sansa, Margaery and Joffrey, Margaery and Tommen). It is traditional for the bride to wear an ivory or white gown (apparently to symbolize her purity/virginity), but many brides will forego this for more elaborate designs (e.g., Sansa was a virgin, and had a generally cream-colored gown, but decorated with elaborate colored embroidery).
At the Tyrion/Sansa wedding, the audience forms an aisle leading from the entrance between the statues of the Stranger and the Crone.
At the Margaery/Joffrey wedding, however, the audience forms even columns with the end pointing directly at the statue of the Stranger.
Now that the couple are together, the ceremony between them and the septon begins in earnest. The septon tells the groom, "You may now cloak the bride and bring her under your protection." The groom takes off the initial cloak that the bride has around her shoulders, displaying the sigil of her noble House, and puts a new cloak around her shoulders, bearing the sigil of the groom's House - symbolically bringing her under his protection and into his family. In some weddings the bride doesn't start out with her own cloak, but all include the step of the groom putting a cloak around her.
The septon then proclaims, "My lords, my ladies, we stand here in the sight of gods and men to witness the union of man and wife. One flesh, one heart, one soul, now and forever."
The couple holds hands as they stand side by side. The septon proceeds to tie a ribbon in a knot around their joined hands (literally "tying the knot"), which symbolizes their union. While tying the ribbon the septon says, "Let it be known that [Names and Houses of the bride and groom] are one heart, one flesh, one soul. Cursed be he who would seek to tear them asunder." The septon then announces, "In the sight of the Seven, I hereby seal these two souls, binding them as one for eternity." After he says this he unravels the ribbon - they remain metaphorically joined for the rest of their lives.
Edmure and Roslin recite their vows, ending with "...from this day, until the end of my days."
The septon them commands, "Look upon each other and say the words", at which the bride and groom recite their vows, both of them speaking simultaneously. First, they list off the names of each of the Seven, in whose sight they are wedding: "Father, Smith, Warrior, Mother, Maiden, Crone, Stranger..." Immediately following this, still speaking simultaneously, they recite their main vows: the groom says "I am hers and she is mine. From this day, until the end of my days," while the bride at the same time says "I am his and he is mine. From this day, until the end of my days."
Having exchanged their vows and kissed, the now-married Tommen Baratheon and Margaery Tyrell turn to face the audience and receive their applause.
This last line is the central vow of the ceremony, to the point that unwed lovers are known to playfully quote it by telling each other "I am yours and you are mine, from this day until the end of my days" (or variants thereof) as an expression of love. Joffrey said this to Sansa in Season 1's "A Golden Crown" when he was briefly trying to be kind to her, and gave her a Lannister lion necklace (though it wasn't clear to the audience at the time he was quoting a phrase from marriage vows), while Tyrion and Shae said it to each other in Season 2.
Finally, after the vows are finished, the groom announces, "With this kiss, I pledge my love," and kisses the bride for the first time. They both then turn to face the audience, who applaud.
The traditional Pigeon pie at the royal wedding between Joffrey and Margaery.
Following the ceremony, a wedding feast is held for all attendees. Among the nobility these can be quite large and extravagant, particularly for royal weddings. Traditionally a large Pigeon pie is served at the weddings of the nobility (commoners often cannot afford such a large meat pie, or sometimes not at all). The pie is meant to be large enough that every guest can have a slice. It is also traditional for the bride and groom to be the first to cut the cake and taste it.
Roslin Frey is carried away from the wedding feast in a bedding ceremony.
After some time, the traditional bedding ceremony may take place, a ribald practice in which the newlyweds are carried to the marriage bed to consummate their marriage by having sex for the first time (after everyone else leaves the room). The feast continues for the guests. The idea behind the bedding custom is that it helps to confirm that the marriage was consummated (it therefore seems to be more common among the nobility, who are more concerned about bloodlines). The bedding custom is not a requirement, however, and sometimes the couple simply skip it, and just quietly leave the feast for their wedding chambers where they will consummate the marriage that night.
Sometimes a couple who wish to marry for love, against their family's wishes, will perform secret weddings. These are still considered lawful so long as they are conducted by a septon and the couple speak their vows, though the ceremony won't be as large or include a big audience. Tyrion Lannister explained in Season 1's "Baelor" that when he was fifteen he eloped with the commoner Tysha when he was a teenager by bribing a drunken septon to marry them in secret (but then the septon sobered up and told his father, then Tywin had his guards gang-rape Tysha, had the marriage annulled, then sent her away and Tyrion never saw her again).
Robb Stark and Talisa secretly marry - in a Faith of the Seven style ceremony conducted by a septon.
Robb Stark secretly marries Talisa in the Season 2 finale, "Valar Morghulis". The circumstances of Robb's marriage are very different in the novels, in which the character he marries is actually named Jeyne Westerling. The Westerlings are minor Lannister vassals but the TV version made "Talisa" a foreigner from Volantis. The showrunners so drastically altered the character that George R.R. Martin felt it wasn't even the same character anymore, and asked Benioff and Weiss to at least acknowledge this by outright renaming the character. At any rate, Robb's wedding ceremony to Jeyne was never actually shown in the novels - though given that the Westerlings seem to follow the Faith of the Seven, it is quite probable that they were married under the rites of the Faith of the Seven by the castle's septon.
In the TV version, a septon ties a knot of ribbon around Robb and Talisa's hands, in the name of the Seven - but this is actually how Robb's own parents were married in the novels.
The TV version shows Robb having a Faith of the Seven style wedding ceremony with Talisa - which caused some confusion among viewers, given that Robb seems to closely follow the Old Gods of the Forest like his father Eddard, while if Talisa is now from Volantis, she wouldn't follow a Westerosi religion at all (unlike her book counterpart, Jeyne). Writer Bryan Cogman addressed this in Q&A, however, pointing out that Robb himself came from an interfaith household (his father followed the Old Gods, but his own mother follows the Faith of the Seven), so Robb was comfortable with it, and just liked the pageantry of the ceremony. In fact, Eddard himself married Catelyn in a Faith of the Seven style wedding. The Old Gods wedding ceremony is very simplistic in contrast - nor does the religion have any priests or holy texts. Given that the Old Gods "don't have many rules", there happened to be a septon available and TV-Robb just chose this ceremony for fun, almost on a whim (which is entirely plausible in-context).
Robb did incorporate some Old Gods wedding elements at his own:  held at night, by torchlight, apparently in a godswood.  There was no large audience so many steps were removed from the small private ceremony.
Robb and Talisa's secret wedding doesn't have a large audience, so it was apparently a simple version omitting many of the traditional prayers (unless the camera is meant to be skipping parts), but includes the core part at which the septon wraps their hands together with a ribbon to bind them together, then they both recite the names of the Seven, then say "I am his/hers and he/she is mine, from this day, until the end of my days," and then they kiss. Indeed, on closer inspection, it seems as if Robb Stark's wedding is almost a hybrid of the Faith of the Seven and Old Gods wedding ceremonies: it isn't performed in a sept at all, but seems to be held in a local godswood in front of a large tree. Moreover, Faith of the Seven wedding ceremonies are typically held during the day, while Robb and Talisa's wedding is held at night by torchlight - which is actually how Old Gods style wedding ceremonies are conducted.
The religion of the Old Gods simply has no clergy, so the wedding ceremony is usually officiated by the father of the groom (Roose).
In the North, where the Old Gods of the Forest still hold sway, there is no clergy in the religion so the wedding ceremony is (apparently) simply officiated by the head of the groom's household (usually his father).
At night, the bride is led to the heart tree at the center of the godswood, with lanterns set up to light the path.
The wedding ceremony is conducted at night in a castle's godswood, before the sacred weirwood heart tree at its center with a face carved into its trunk ages before, so that the ceremony can be witnessed by the Old Gods. The guests carry torches to light the area, and the groom waits before the heart tree with them. The bride is ritualistically led to the group gathered around the heart tree by a member of her family - usually her father or one of her brothers (but it can also be a ward of their family). After leading the bride before the heart tree, he formally presents her to the person officiating the ceremony - overall this is similar to the part of the wedding ceremony in the Faith of the Seven in which a bride's father (or other close relative if her father is dead) leads her into a sept and presents her before the officiating septon at the altar.
The bride (Sansa) is presented before the godswood's weirwood heart tree.
The bride and groom exchange vows before the wedding guests assembled in front of the heart tree.
After the bride is led before the heart tree, several ritualistic lines are exchanged between the officiator and the person presenting the bride. First, the groom's father demands who comes before the Old Gods. The bride's presenter responds that they have come to beg the blessing of the Gods for their marriage, before asking who comes to claim her:
The groom steps forward and announces his claim before asking who gives his bride away. Once the bride's father/presenter has introduced himself, the groom's father asks whether the bride will take his son as a husband.
The bride then agrees by saying "I take this man", and the wedding is done. The entire ceremony is simpler than the longer wedding ceremony in the Faith of the Seven which involves more steps and the lengthy recitation of various prayers, etc., but the core elements of presenting and "giving away" the bride, and the bride and groom exchanging vows witnessed by the guests and their gods, are essentially similar. As with the Faith of the Seven, after the ceremony at which the vows are exchanged, the wedding party celebrates with a large feast.
Sansa Stark was wed to Ramsay Bolton in such a ceremony. Since her father and brothers were all thought to be dead, Theon Greyjoy, who had been Lord Stark's ward, gave her away while Lord Roose Bolton, Ramsay's father, officiated the ceremony.
The Free Folk clans that live beyond the Wall (called "wildlings" by the inhabitants of the Seven Kingdoms) also follow the religion of the Old Gods of the Forest like their Northmen cousins do (as both descend from the First Men). Wildling social customs, however, are apparently much simpler - given that they don't have a hereditary system of inheritance necessitating political marriages between different aristocratic dynasties.
Having captured a woman, a wildling man prevents her attempt to kill him with a dagger:  as a result, they are "married".
As Ygritte explains in a Histories & Lore animated featurette, wildling men often take brides by ritualistically (or not-so-ritualistically) kidnapping them from their village. The "bride" can and often will try to slit his throat, and if he prevents her from succeeding, quite simply they are considered "married". Wildling women - many of whom are spearwives capable of holding their own in combat - want a husband who is strong, quick, and cunning. Thus if a man manages to capture her and overpower her attempts to kill him, he has proven that he is worthy and earns her respect.
Given that Jon Snow managed to capture Ygritte, and later had sex with her, they could technically be considered "married" in wildling culture.
Similarly, when they had sex in the novels, Gilly exclaimed that she is Samwell's "wife" now.
Khal Drogo and Daenerys Targaryen at their Dothraki wedding feast in Pentos.
The traditional Dothraki wedding ceremony is a daylong feast in which gifts are presented to the new couple. Displays of personal combat, duels to the death, and wild public orgies are commonplace at such feasts. A Dothraki wedding without at least three deaths is considered a dull affair.
The wedding feast lasts from dawn to sunset, at which time the new husband and wife consummate their marriage. Because the Dothraki spend most of their time riding on the open plains, everything of importance in Dothraki culture is done outdoors under the sky. Thus, on their wedding night, a Dothraki couple rides away from the main camp to the open plains, and consummate their marriage under the stars.
It isn't clear if any further ceremony or religious invocations are made at a Dothraki wedding, as no priests seem to be present. However, after marrying a khal is expected to return back to the Dothraki holy city Vaes Dothrak to present his new bride to the Dosh Khaleen, the council of widows of past khals who essentially form the only "priesthood" that the Dothraki have, interpreting favorable omens from the Great Stallion that is the central deity of their religion.
"Marriage" as such does not exist on the island of Naath.  Thus there are no wedding customs or legal restrictions: "Bastardy" is an alien concept on Naath, and thus no children are punished for their parents not being "married" the way bastards are stigmatized in Westeros.
When new recruits join the Night's Watch (such as Jon and Samwell), they take oaths of celibacy.
The clergy of the Faith of the Seven (such as Septa Mordane) take vows of celibacy.
Certain organizations make their members take vows of celibacy. These include:
Of course, people have been known to surreptitiously break their vows of celibacy: Night's Watch men stationed at Castle Black are known to sneak off to the brothel in Mole's Town, and maesters such as Pycelle have been known to have sex with prostitutes, as can clergymen in the Faith (Septon Ollidor of the Most Devout in the novels, which the TV series condensed with the second High Septon). Breaking vows of celibacy can be met with variable punishments in these different organizations, or be punished more or less severely within the same organization: at worst, clergymen or maesters can be expelled from their orders, but because Night's Watch vows are taken for life, technically a death sentence is the maximum possible penalty - though in practice it is usually met with a lighter sentence (particularly in recent generations when the Watch's numbers have dwindled so badly that it can't afford to lose any more men).
The medieval society of Westeros does not have a concept of an intervening life stage of "adolescence" between childhood and adulthood: the legal age of majority for boys is sixteen in the novels (though it may have been increased to eighteen in the TV series). As soon as a boy reaches his sixteenth nameday, he suddenly becomes "a man grown". The age of majority is technically the same for girls, but a girl is usually considered to become "a woman" upon flowering (menstruating) for the first time. It is considered perverse and unusual to have sex with or marry a young girl who has not flowered yet. However, once a girl has begun menstruating, she is instantly considered "a woman" and capable of marrying (though due to lower nutritional standards in medieval societies like Westeros, girls tend to menstruate at later ages than in modern times, around 12 to 16 years old). While girls can be married as soon as they flower, however, powerful noble families will more often wait to marry off their daughters until they can find a very good marriage-pact to enter them into. While it is seen as perverse to marry and bed a young girl who has not yet flowered, betrothals can be made earlier - with the actual marriage not being entered into for several years. Such early betrothals were conducted between Sansa Stark and Joffrey Baratheon, and between Myrcella Baratheon and Trystane Martell.
None of the known cultures in the novels has ever been described as practicing some form of same-sex marriage - though little has been said about cultures outside of Westeros, and hardly any specific detail is known about the cultures east of the Bone Mountains (east of the Dothraki and Qarth) or the southern regions of Sothoryos. This is not to say that same-sex marriage is "prohibited" in Westeros, it has simply never existed. Marriages are rarely made for love in Westeros, however, but to secure political alliances - and it is generally understood that a man's closest friends will be other men, not his wife. Thus while "homosexual marriage" doesn't exist in Westeros, "homosocial relationships" are by far the norm. For example, the person that Robert Baratheon "loved" most in the world was his lifelong friend and brother-in-arms Eddard Stark, while Robert's arranged marriage to his wife Queen Cersei was filled with mutual hatred and resentment. To Robert, Cersei was just some woman that lived in his castle for breeding purposes. Somewhat similarly, Robert's youngest brother Renly Baratheon entered into a marriage with Margaery Tyrell purely to secure a political alliance with her family, not for love - when in fact he was privately homosexual, and had been in a long term sexual/romantic relationship with Margaery's own brother Loras Tyrell (which Margaery was actually fully aware of and didn't mind). Publicly, while the exact nature of Renly and Loras's relationship is a secret, the fact that Renly openly seems to have a closer relationship with Loras than with his own wife Margaery isn't seen as particularly unusual.
Viserys and Daenerys Targaryen are the product of generations of compound inbreeding, incestuously wedding brother to sister to "keep the bloodlines pure".
Most cultures across Westeros and Essos have rules against incest - sexual contact between direct family members (siblings, parents, or children), though the specific rules can vary. Most major religions in both Westeros and Essos consider marriage between brothers and sisters to be incest.
The dragonlords of the old Valyrian Freehold, however, who once ruled much of Essos, preferred to marry brother to sister "to keep the bloodlines pure". The Doom of Valyria, four hundred years before the War of the Five Kings, wiped out their civilization. One Valyrian noble family, however, survived the Doom with living dragons: House Targaryen, which a hundred years later conquered and unified the Seven Kingdoms, and proceeded to rule them for the next three centuries.
The Targaryens' continued practice of incestuous brother-sister marriages was always a point of contention with the Faith of the Seven, which considered it to be an abomination. This led to outright war between the Faith and the Crown in the generation after the conquest, when Maegor Targaryen brutally fought rebellions by the Faith Militant, quickly earning him the nickname "Maegor the Cruel". Maegor's brutal tactics eventually led to a successful rebellion in favor of his nephew Jaehaerys I Targaryen. While Jaehaerys was married to his own sister, he was a wise diplomat and sought peace with the Faith, successfully negotiating that it didn't have to accept the Targaryens' incestuous marriages but only acknowledge them, the rationale being that the Targaryens' royal status set them above the rules of normal men. This arrangement successfully held for the next two and a half centuries that the Targaryens held power (though they didn't always marry their sisters in every generation). The Targaryens were overthrown because of Robert's Rebellion, not because of societal dislike of royal incest.
There is no indication that any culture in Westeros or Essos has ever condoned sexual relations, much less marriage, between parents and their children - not even the Valyrians. Craster, a wildling living on a very isolated homestead in the wilderness beyond the Wall, would "marry" his own daughters, to father more daughters on them that he would in turn marry (such as Gilly) - but this was only possible due to the extreme isolation they were living in, not condoned as part of a "society". Even the other wildlings utterly despised Craster, and what he was doing was not remotely considered acceptable in wider wildling society.
Marriage between first cousins is not uncommon among the nobility of Westeros, and is not considered incest in their culture. Even Tywin Lannister married his own first cousin, Joanna Lannister. The Valyrians (and later, the Targaryens) preferred to marry cousins of as close a degree as possible if there were no sisters in the current generation of their families. They were also known to have marriages between uncles and nieces (and probably also aunts and nephews): Rhaenyra Targaryen herself married her own uncle, Daemon Targaryen (though uncle-niece marriage is not as close a degree of incest as brother-sister incest).
Bigamy is forbidden in several major religions, such as the Faith of the Seven or the Old Gods of the Forest. The Faith of the Seven considers marrying multiple wives at the same time to be an abomination.
Several other world religions, however, do practice polygamy. The ironborn under the Drowned God religion come close to this with their practice of taking one primary "rock wife" but multiple lower-ranking "salt wives" (basically glorified concubines) - though they never take more than one "rock wife".
The Dornishmen do have a cultural tradition of keeping openly acknowledged mistresses/lovers called "paramours", even when they are already married to someone else. By definition paramours are not "married": unlike the salt wives of the ironborn, the children of paramours are considered bastards without inheritance rights (though unlike the rest of the Seven Kingdoms, bastardy is not considered very shameful in Dorne).
Aegon the Conqueror, following Valyrian customs, was simultaneously married to both of his sister-wives, Visenya and Rhaenys.
The ancient Valyrians were known to practice polygamy - it was not very frequent, but it was not uncommon and unheard of either. Aegon I Targaryen was simultaneously married to both of his sister-wives, Visenya and Rhaenys. Afterwards House Targaryen stopped practicing polygamy, however, realizing that it would greatly antagonize the Faith of the Seven, which was already extremely upset about their incestuous bloodline and marriages (apparently they continued to practice incestuous marriages because fundamentally they already had an incestuous bloodline and nothing could change that, but they could actively choose not to engage in polygamy anymore).
The Dothraki practice polygamy, and a khal can take several wives at once (Khal Drogo just happened to not have any wives already when he wed Daenerys Targaryen). The status of Dothraki marriages can vary considerably, however: some khals will take multiple wives at once, often merely captives taken in raids, who are considered little more than concubines. Yet sometimes, a khal will fall deeply in love with one wife, a khaleesi who practically co-rules by his side, and he won't take any other wives.
Bastard names by region.
Bastardy - when children are born outside of marriage - is considered so shameful in Westeros that the acknowledged bastard children of the nobility have to use special bastard surnames, one surname for each of the Seven Kingdoms. Bastards from the North use the surname "Snow", such as Jon Snow and Ramsay Snow. Bastards from the desert kingdom Dorne use the surname "Sand", such as Ellaria Sand, as well as Oberyn Martell's daughters (nicknamed "the Sand Snakes" as a result). Dorne has different views on sexuality than the rest of Westeros, and unlike the other kingdoms the Dornish don't consider bastardy to be particularly shameful. Only bastards of the nobility can use these surnames. Bastards are excluded from the line of succession, though on rare occasion a king might grant them Legitimization.
The TV series released a behind-the-scenes video featurette on "Bastards of Westeros" including comments by Martin himself (click this link to view).
There are three major systems of inheritance law practiced in the Seven Kingdoms, all variations on the winner-take-all rule of primogeniture. Most of the Seven Kingdoms follow male-preference primogeniture: sons rank ahead of daughters in the line of succession (i.e. Bran Stark is ahead of his older sister Sansa Stark in the line of succession, and Tyrion was ahead of his older sister Cersei).
The House Stark line of succession at the beginning of the narrative is:  1 - Robb, 2 - Bran, 3 - Rickon, 4 - Sansa, 5 - Arya.  Rickon outranks his older sister Sansa. Jon Snow is a bastard, with no right to inheritance.
Dorne is an exception: due to resisting conquest by the Targaryens and only joining the realm one century ago through marriage-alliance the Dornish were allowed to keep many of their local laws, including gender-blind primogeniture. As a result, in the novels Prince Doran Martell's heir apparent is his daughter Arianne, not her younger brothers (Arianne seems to have been cut from the TV series). Doran himself inherited the rule of Dorne from his mother, who was also a Martell by birth.
Royal inheritance law was heavily modified after the Dance of the Dragons to place female heirs to the throne behind all possible male ones (in the hope that this would prevent another civil war). Under both Andal law and Dornish law, a lord's younger brother only inherits after the lord's entire bloodline is dead (the lord's children and grandchildren) - and thus under Andal and Dornish law, a lord's daughter ranks ahead of the lord's younger brother. Royal inheritance law, in contrast, is the only one of these three systems in which the ruler's daughter ranks behind the ruler's younger brother in the line of succession.
Season 1 of the TV series outright states that if Sansa only has daughters with Joffrey, the Iron Throne would pass to Joffrey's younger brother Tommen, and also that even Robert's second brother Renly is ahead of Myrcella in the line of succession. This is true under royal inheritance law but not for the normal inheritance law, which is followed by Winterfell. Indeed, by Season 5 when all of the legitimate Stark sons are believed dead, Sansa is repeatedly referred to as the legitimate heir to Winterfell. Because the Targaryen exiles considered the Baratheons to be pretenders to the throne, Daenerys was officially the heir of her brother Viserys for many years, simply because all other male Targaryens had in fact died by that point - making Daenerys, upon Viserys's death, the first Targaryen woman to lawfully claim the throne under the modified royal inheritance laws.
Charts of the three inheritance systems:
Inheritance law outside of the Seven Kingdoms has not been described in much detail. The Free Folk that live beyond the Wall in Westeros (commonly called "wildlings"), actually don't have any hereditary aristocracy or formal system of inheritance. A clan leader usually isn't followed because he or she is the child of the previous leader, but because all of the clan members respect their strength and skill, and choose to follow that leader. The major example of this is the position of King-Beyond-the-Wall, an over-chieftain that manages to unite all of the wildling clans: the position is not hereditary, and someone only becomes King-Beyond-the-Wall because all of the clans choose to follow him.
Similarly, the Dothraki do not actually have a formal inheritance system, as they follow strength. The infant son of a khal and his wife has no guarantee or "right" to inherit leadership after he dies. Often, if the son of a khal is already a grown man and powerful warrior in his own right, rule over his father's khalasar will pass to him, but only if he has already earned the respect of the other warriors in the khalasar.
{Renly Baratheon} and {Margaery Tyrell}, cementing House Tyrell's support for Renly's claim to the Iron Throne. Went unconsummated before Renly was assassinated.
{Tywin Lannister} and {Joanna Lannister}, cousins who married out of love.
Marriage is presented as a cultural universal in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels: every culture across the known world has some version of it. How each culture defines marriage, however, can vary considerably, i.e., some cultures practice polygamous marriages but others do not.
Marriage customs and wedding ceremonies in a few other cultures and religions have been described:
Not much has been said about the wedding ceremony in the religion of the Drowned God. All that has been said is passing mention that marriage ceremonies among the ironborn are officiated by Drowned Men priests - and that marriage ceremonies for "salt wives" are "considerably less solemn" than the ceremony for a lord's primary, "rock" wife. The ironborn apparently don't have "temples" or religious structures, but conduct religious rituals on the shores of the ocean - such as Theon's baptism to reaffirm his faith seen in book/Season 2. It seems probable that weddings among the ironborn are also conducted on the shores of the sea, and possibly involve wading into the water, etc.
In the Lord of Light religion, the wedding ceremony is conducted by a Red Priest (or Red Priestess), and involves the bride and groom jumping over a low bonfire that has been set in a ditch. Symbolically, two separate people begin the jump, two separate souls/flames, but as they pass through the flames their two souls/flames join as one. The only example of such a wedding seen so far in the novels was performed by Melisandre at Castle Black, when one of the wildling leaders, Sigorn son of Styr, marries the Northern noblewoman Alys Karstark, in order to prevent her treacherous great-uncle Arnolf from taking over Karhold. Both the bride and the groom actually followed the Old Gods of the Forest and didn't convert to the Lord of Light religion - the wildlings just don't really have any wedding ceremony rituals, there is no heart tree at Castle Black to conduct a wedding in front of, and Melisandre happened to be there. Apparently they just enjoyed the ceremony of it - or, possibly, they wanted to curry favor with Stannis Baratheon's faction given that Alys was opposed to Bolton rule of the North, and Queen Selyse (who was left at Castle Black in the novels) was in attendance for the wedding. Given that neither the bride or groom were actually followers of the Lord of Light religion in this instance and it was arranged rather quickly (and held during a snowstorm), it isn't clear how representative this example is of a "typical" wedding ceremony in the religion.
In Slaver's Bay weddings are conducted at the city's Temple of the Graces. There are also various customs surrounding a wedding. In Meereen (and presumably the other cities) one of these is that before the wedding, it is expected that the women of the groom's family will inspect the genitals and womb of the bride, to confirm that she is fertile. This is a hallowed and serious custom, also overseen by several of the Graces from the temple (the Blue Graces are known to serve as healers trained in medicine). Men are apparently forbidden to be present. After it is successfully completed, the bride and assembled women eat a special cake which is only made for this event, and which men are forbidden to taste. Another hallowed custom is that the bride symbolically washes the feet of the groom, symbolizing that she will be his handmaiden (it isn't clear if this happens at the actual wedding ceremony or another time). The wedding garments are also fraught with meaning: the bride is dressed in dark red veils above a tokar of white silk, fringed with baby pearls. The pearls symbolize fertility: the more pearls the bride wears, the more healthy children she will bear. These customs are described to Daenerys Targaryen when she is preparing to marry Hizdahr zo Loraq. She refuses to be inspected by the women of Hizdahr's family - in part, secretly, because she fears that the stillbirth of her son Rhaego caused by Mirri Maz Duur also left her womb infertile, and if this is discovered in the ceremony she will lose the political alliance she wanted to secure with the marriage. She also scoffs at symbolically washing Hizdahr's feet, though she agrees to wear the Ghiscari-style wedding dress.
Qarth has its own unique marriage customs, some of which are described to Daenerys when she is contemplating a political marriage-alliance with Xaro Xhoan Daxos. After they are married, a Qartheen husband and wife each retain legal ownership over their previous properties and possessions. However, a custom is that at the wedding, the groom may ask for any of the bride's possessions, and the bride in return can ask for any of the groom's possessions. This request cannot be denied, no matter what it is for, and is seen as a symbol of trust between the two of them. When Daenerys hears of this she realizes that Xaro would use it to lay claim to one of her three dragons, because he knew she wasn't aware of the custom. This sours her on the idea of marrying him and she prepares to leave Qarth. Meeting him a last time, she sarcastically counters that if she did marry him, while she couldn't prevent him from asking for one of her dragons, the equal gift she would ask for in return would be a third of all the ships - not a third of all the ships in Xaro's merchant fleet, or in all of Qarth, but a third of all the ships in the entire world. Xaro scoffs at this and they part ways.
The custom of marriage-by-proxy, which was sometimes practiced in the Medieval Ages, is sometimes practiced among the ironborn. It is unknown if it is acceptable in other regions of Westeros. Euron marries Asha, in her absence and without asking for her consent, to Erik Ironmaker - using a seal to stand in for her at her wedding (probably as a mockery). When Asha hears about that, she comments "I hope Erik did not insist on a consummation". It is unclear if she can have the marriage annulled, either because she has not given her consent; or that using a non-human proxy is invalid; or that the marriage was not consummated; in any case, she hardly gives any thought about her marriage, nor about annulment. Ser Justin Massey, who is interested in wedding Asha, claims that her marriage can be "easily set aside" because it was done by proxy and never been consummated (implying that marriage by proxy is considered invalid by non-ironborn).
According to George R.R. Martin, marriage be annulled without both parties present; thus, if Sansa wishes to have her marriage to Tyrion set aside, Tyrion's presence is not required. However, Sansa (currently disguised as Alayne, Littlefinger's bastard daughter) needs to reveal her true identity for requesting the annulment.
Marriage is a socially recognized union between people that establishes rights and obligations between them and their children. While in a broad sense "marriage" of some kind is a cultural universal found in all human societies throughout history, the exact definitions of "marriage", like conceptions about sexuality as a whole, have varied considerably across different cultures and within the same cultures across time (i.e. some cultures practice polygamous marriages, others do not). Even in Christian Western Europe, strictly speaking, from the fourth to twenty-first centuries there has never been one "traditional" definition of marriage, the definition changed every three or four centuries.
Prior to the year 1000 marriage in Europe was largely a contractual arrangement made by two families to link them together, for political alliance and transfer of property. A son from one family married the daughter from another: ostensibly, the wife would only have procreative sex with her husband and thus marriage confirmed that all of her children were fathered by her husband - which made them "legitimate", confirmed heirs, capable of inheriting his family's property. Men, however, often kept several long-term concubines alongside their wives, who often had official status and certain legal rights. A social/emotional or spiritual union between the husband and wife was not expected, and religious overtones were minimal.
The definition of "marriage", and standards about sexuality in general, in the real-life Middle Ages were drastically changed by the Gregorian Reform movement within the Christian Church after the year 1000. The reformers enforced clerical celibacy (which had not been practiced in the first 1,000 years of Christianity) to lessen the control of political dynasties over powerful Church offices. Thus "marriage" was redefined again to be something the clergy couldn't do. This led to the Church propagating the view that the celibate life was the ideal mode of living, and sex among non-clergy was only permissible within marriage, exclusively for the necessary evil of producing children. Marriage among the non-clergy was redefined as "monogamous, indissoluble...a relationship in which sexual intercourse could give rise to children who could inherit property."
At the same time, the Church reformers started attempting to infuse spiritual values into marriage, redefining it as not simply a social contract but a profound religious/spiritual union. They propagated for the first time the view that marriage was a holy vow that had to be actively consented to by both persons: to be sure, many families still forced their daughters to "consent" to political marriages, but they never would have bothered to pay this token lip-service to the idea of consent during the pre-Christian Roman era.
In Game of Thrones Season 3 episode 6 "The Climb", Edmure Tully complains that he can't be forced to enter into a marriage-alliance with a Frey girl, because a man cannot be forced to take holy vows without his consent - which is a reference to this concept. In the TV version his uncle Brynden simply threatens to punch him if he refuses, but in the book version, Brynden more politely urges that while he's one of the last men who should be giving such a command (given that he refused his own brother Hoster's command to enter into an arranged marriage), Edmure must go through with it because they desperately need to repair their alliance with the Freys. Sansa Stark and Tyrion Lannister are also forced to marry each other against their wills (particularly, Sansa, a captive of the Lannisters), but they still make her go through the token gesture of saying "yes" during the marriage ceremony. Even in the late Middle Ages, marriages were rarely made for love, but to secure political alliances and rights to property:
The Gregorian Reforms of the eleventh century not only resulted in a celibate priesthood, but succeeded in making a politically stronger clergy not dominated by the nobility, who could in time pressure the aristocracy to accept their moral dictates. The Catholic Church began to redefine marriage by placing limits on incestuous marriage between cousins of a certain degree (see the main article on "Incest"). Where once a man could marry his first cousin, he now could not marry his third cousin or any closer relation. It is theorized that the Church put limits on incestuous marriages within certain degrees because it often led to civil wars within families, as it left the succession order muddled.
Attitudes about marriage changed somewhat after the Black Death devastated Europe starting in 1346, which killed over a third of the population. For the first time there was a massive labor shortage, with not enough peasants to work the fields and feed the towns and cities. While the Church used to espouse that marriage was distant second to choosing a life of celibacy, after the plague Church sermons began praising and valorizing marriage as also a worthy state of living, to encourage the commoners to produce more children. Westeros's analogue of the Black Death was the Great Spring Sickness, a major plague that broke out about 90 years before the events of the main novels: the plague strikes right after the first of the Tales of Dunk and Egg prequel novellas, and thus the bulk of their stories take place in the plague's aftermath. The massive depopulation caused by the plague may have had a similar effect on attitudes about marriage in Westeros.
The Inn at the Crossroads, also called the Crossroads Inn, is an inn owned by the Heddle family. It is a popular stop for travelers on the Kingsroad. It is so-named because it lies at the meeting point of major roads which run north-south and east-west. The Kingsroad runs north to Winterfell and south to King's Landing. The River Road runs west into the Riverlands. At the crossroads, however, the name of the highway running west-east changes, becoming known as the Eastern Road which runs to the Vale of Arryn.
The inn (and the crossroads) is also located close to the banks of the Trident River, as well as the main crossing point of the Trident at Ruby Ford where the Kingsroad passes over it. The inn is run by Masha Heddle.
King Robert Baratheon's party rests at the Crossroads Inn on its way from Winterfell to King's Landing. Joffrey is wounded in an altercation with Arya's direwolf on the riverbank. The Hound kills Arya's friend Mycah, the butcher's boy.
Catelyn and Ser Rodrik Cassel stop at the inn on their way back to Winterfell, where they are accosted by the singer Marillion. Tyrion then arrives and Catelyn calls on several knights present loyal to her father to help her take him into custody. She loudly tells everyone in the inn that she is taking Tyrion to Winterfell, but instead travels east to the Eyrie.
The Brotherhood Without Banners stop here, along with Arya Stark and The Hound. Arya confronts The Hound about what happened last time they were here. Hot Pie decides to stay and work at the Crossroads Inn and bids farewell to "Arry" and Gendry. 
When Brienne and Podrick set out from King's Landing in search of Sansa, they stop at the inn for the night. They order a pleasant meal consisting of kidney pie, and are served by the cook - Hot Pie, who has continued to work at the inn since Arya departed. Hot Pie is excited that they enjoy his kidney pie, and goes on at length about how important it is to get the gravy right. Annoyed, Brienne explains that they are looking for Sansa and asks if he has heard anything about her. Hot Pie's initial reaction is to get nervous, say the Starks are traitors, and leave. The next day, as Brienne and Podrick are saddling up their horses to leave, Podrick warns Brienne that she really shouldn't specifically ask about Sansa by name, because the Lannisters are offering a large amount of money to anyone who helps recapture her - enough money for people to kill over (which will endanger Brienne and Podrick, as well as anyone who might want to help them).
Just then, Hot Pie shyly comes out of the inn and admits that he actually does have some information that may help them. He doesn't know anything about Sansa, but he had been travelling with a girl named Arya. Brienne is surprised, and says that Sansa's younger sister Arya hasn't been seen since her father was executed at the beginning of the war, and she was presumed dead. Brienne asks for the short and quick explanation, so Hot Pie summarizes that Arya managed to escape King's Landing disguised as a boy in a group of Night's Watch recruits, but they were attacked by Lannister soldiers and taken as prisoners to Harrenhal, which they eventually escaped from only to be captured by the Brotherhood Without Banners, who intended to return Arya to her relatives at Riverrun in return for ransom money. The Brotherhood dropped Hot Pie off to work at the Inn in exchange for the meals the innkeeper provided them, and that was the last he saw of Arya. He also recalls that the Brotherhood had taken another prisoner, a great big man with half of his face severely burned, whom Podrick realizes must have been Sandor Clegane.
Before they leave, Hot Pie gives them a gift to give to Arya if they find her: he has spent the past few months refining and perfecting his direwolf-shaped bread, and his latest one came out a lot better than the one he previously gave her (Arya couldn't tell the head from the tail on the last one, but the new one is a perfect replication of the Stark direwolf sigil). As they continue down the road, they realize that the Brotherhood couldn't have returned Arya to Riverrun after the defeat of the Stark-Tully forces at the Red Wedding. Pod recalls from his studies of the current major noble families in Westeros that Arya's only remaining relative who is both free from the Lannisters and wealthy is her maternal aunt, Lysa Arryn, the current regent of the Vale of Arryn. Therefore it is reasonable to assume that anyone trying to ransom Arya would now head for the Eyrie - and by the same logic it is also one of the more likely places that Sansa Stark might try to flee to. They take the fork in the road away from the crossroads onto the Eastern Road, and head for the Vale.
Arya learns from Hot Pie, at the Inn, about House Stark's success in the North, which changes her travel plans from travelling south to north.
Bran later tells Arya that through his visions as the Three-Eyed Raven, he saw her at the crossroads.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Crossroads Inn was built during the reign of King Jaehaerys I over two hundred years prior to the beginning of the novels. It was Jaehaerys I who ordered the construction of the Kingsroad and other major highways (often over older local roads), which made the eponymous crossroads nearby, and both Jaehearys and his wife Queen Alysanne stayed at the inn once. The inn managed to survive each of the major wars that have ravaged the Riverlands since then, including the Dance of the Dragons, multiple Blackfyre Rebellions, and Robert's Rebellion.
The inn may be at the border between several different lordships, and the borders are known to have shifted during the fractious history of the Riverlands. During the First Blackfyre Rebellion, the inn's lands belonged to House Darry, but apparently the Darrys lost control of them by the War of the Five Kings (possibly stripped as punishment for being Targaryen supporters in Robert's Rebellion).
The inn sits on the north side of the Trident river (after the point when all three forks join into one). In past generations it was located right on the river and had a ferry dock, but the river shifted course during the time of Masha Heddle's grandfather. Masha's grandfather ran the inn before handing it down to her.
The Heddle family themselves actually have a surname because they descend from a poor landless knight named Jon Heddle, who took up work being an innkeeper after receiving a crippling injury. Jon's son was old during the First Blackfyre Rebellion - apparently other people owned the inn during the full century it existed before that. At this point the Heddles don't actually own any land, and other than having a surname they aren't different from other smallfolk.
In the novels, Tywin's army assembles at the Inn for battle with the Stark host bearing down on them from the north. Tywin hangs Masha Heddle for letting Tyrion be taken prisoner on the premises (although there was nothing she could have done to stop Catelyn). Tyrion joins his father's host at the inn and debates strategy with him there. In the TV series, however, the Lannister army assembles much further to the west, the inn is not involved in the battle, and Masha Heddle presumably survives.
After Tywin goes to Harrenhal, Roose Bolton recaptures the crossroads from the Lannisters, and presumably takes the inn with it.
One of Masha's nephews reopening the inn, but the wars have made the roads too dangerous for common folk to travel, so there is little income. He brings in whores, but even that cannot save the business. Some time afterwards he is killed by Rorge. Later, two of Masha's nieces, Jeyne and Willow, reopen the inn for business and it serves as a refuge for orphan children. The Heddles and the inn are now connected with the Brotherhood, and Gendry currently works for them as a smith.
Hot Pie ends up in a different inn named the Inn of the Kneeling Man, whose owners are also collaborators of the Brotherhood.
The bloody brawl between the Hound, Arya, Polliver, the Tickler and a Sarsfield squire takes place at the Crossroads Inn.
Brienne and Podrick encounter Rorge's gang at the Crossroads Inn. In the ensuing fight, Brienne kills Rorge and Gendry kills Biter.
The Kingsroad in the North, near Winterfell.
A map showing the location of the Kingsroad on the continent of Westeros.
The Kingsroad is the longest and grandest highway in Westeros, running from Castle Black at the Wall all the way south to the capital city of the Six Kingdoms, King's Landing, passing the Kingdom of the North along the way. The Kingsroad runs near Winterfell but not directly through it. A short road from Winterfell leads to a crossroads where travelers from the castle can turn north to go up the Kingsroad to the Wall, or follow the Kingsroad south to King's Landing.
The Inn at the Crossroads, in the Riverlands, is a popular stop for travelers on the road. It continues south past King's Landing until it terminates at the great castle of Storm's End, the ruling seat of the Stormlands.
The royal party travels north from King's Landing to Winterfell, spending more than a month on the road. They travel back the same way, stopping at the Crossroads Inn. At the same time, Jon Snow, Tyrion Lannister, and Benjen Stark travel north from Winterfell to Castle Black, where the road terminates.
Yoren leads a group of recruits for the Night's Watch north along the Kingsroad, including Gendry, Hot Pie, Lommy Greenhands, and Jaqen H'ghar. Also traveling with them is a disguised Arya Stark (now traveling back north up the Kingsroad), whom Yoren intends to drop off at the safety of Winterfell on their way to the Wall. However, while they are still in the Riverlands south of the Trident River, they are accosted by several Gold Cloaks, who are looking for Gendry. Yoren manages to scare them off but they promise to return with more men. The Gold Cloaks follow through on their threat and return with House Lannister soldiers led by Ser Amory Lorch. They attack during the night when the Night's Watch recruits have camped just off the Kingsroad. Yoren and Lommy are killed in the ensuing skirmish, while Arya, Gendry, and the rest are taken as prisoners to the nearby castle of Harrenhal.
Tywin Lannister's army makes a swift, forced march from Harrenhal down the west side of Gods Eye lake and down the Blackwater River. In the northern Kingswood, his army unites with the army of House Tyrell coming up the Roseroad, and the two united armies continue north along the brief stretch of the Kingsroad between the point where it joins the Roseroad and King's Landing. When they arrive at the city, they decisively defeat the forces of Stannis Baratheon at the Battle of the Blackwater.
Jon, the Warden of the North who had declared his allegiance for Daenerys Targaryen as the Queen of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, marches along with the surviving Dothraki and the army of the North on the Kingsroad in order to besiege King's Landing and overthrow Cersei Lannister. He separates from his forces after crossing the Trident and heads to Dragonstone after Cersei refuses to surrender.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Kingsroad extends for over two thousand miles from Storm's End to the Wall. Its quality varies from place to place, but it greatly speeds travel in the northern half of the continent. The road was built over two centuries ago during the reign of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen, using existing roads and pathways where possible.
Histories & Lore:"Mad King Aerys: House Lannister""The Westerlands"
Ser Ilyn Payne was a mute knight and the King's Justice, the royal executioner. He executed Eddard Stark on King Joffrey Baratheon's orders.
The Mad King has Ilyn's tongue removed.
Ser Ilyn Payne had his tongue removed on the order of the Mad King for suggesting that Tywin Lannister, then Hand of the King and whom Ser Ilyn served as Captain of the Guards, was the true ruler of Westeros rather than Aerys. He served Robert Baratheon as "the King's Justice" - the royal executioner.
Sansa encounters Ilyn while out walking as they are traveling with the king's procession back to King's Landing, and is startled by his appearance. Sansa apologizes to Ilyn for possibly offending him, but receives no reply. The Hound informs her that Ilyn had his tongue removed years ago by the Mad King and now serves as the king's executioner.
Ilyn is ordered to execute Lady.
Ilyn is later ordered to kill Sansa's direwolf Lady by Queen Cersei as revenge for Nymeria (who acted in defense of Arya) attacking Joffrey. Ned insists on carrying out the sentence himself instead. Following King Robert's death, Ilyn serves Joffrey.
Ilyn executes Eddard Stark.
Eddard is led before the people outside the Great Sept of Baelor and confesses to treason. Joffrey tells the crowd that both Sansa and his mother have asked that Ned be sent to Castle Black as a punishment. To the surprise of all, however, Joffrey suddenly proclaims that they have the soft hearts of women, and promises that, during his reign, treason will be punished: he orders Ilyn to bring him Ned's head. Ilyn takes House Stark's ancestral sword, Ice, and beheads Ned with one swift stroke.
Marillion is brought before Joffrey because he wrote a song mocking Robert and Cersei. As a punishment, Joffrey orders Ilyn to (ironically) cut out Marillion's tongue.
When Tyrion arrives in the capital city, he confronts his sister Cersei over her defense that she "tried to stop" Eddard's execution. Tyrion bluntly points out Joffrey wasn't the one holding the sword, yet both Cersei and Ser Ilyn simply went along with the boy-king's orders, when they could have easily just stopped what they were doing.
Ilyn's execution of Ned earns him a place on Arya's death list that she recites each night before she sleeps.
Ilyn attends Cersei during the Battle of Blackwater.
Ser Ilyn continues to serve Joffrey as the War of the Five Kings ravages Westeros. During the Battle of the Blackwater, he accompanies Cersei to Maegor's Holdfast. Though the Queen claims Ser Ilyn is present to protect them and to deal with potential betrayers, she later admits to Sansa that his true purpose is to execute her and Sansa, and possibly the rest of the ladies who have taken refuge in the holdfast, should Stannis Baratheon take the city.
When Tyrion confronts his father on the night before his scheduled execution, Tywin assures him he won't let Ilyn Payne take his head.
Ilyn Payne is a stern, grim and brooding man due to having lost his tongue and his ability to speak. He is constantly expressionless and almost never emotes aloud. Even so, numerous other individuals claim that he lives only to kill on the King's word and deeply enjoys his work as executioner. Ilyn is also one of the few people who scare the Hound.
* Bran's vision
On January 9, 2013 actor Wilko Johnson announced that he had been diagnosed with terminal cancer of the pancreas. Though he initially refused treatment, he underwent a successful tumor-removal operation in 2014.
Johnson's declining health has apparently led to him being gradually phased out of the TV series. He only appeared in one episode of Season 2 ("Blackwater"), and did not appear in Season 3 at all. Then again, Ser Ilyn did not prominently appear in the first half of the third novel either (which was adapted as Season 3). (On the other hand, Ser Ilyn's most important role in Season 4 was instead given to Bronn.) Given that Ser Ilyn cannot speak or convey his thoughts through writing, he does not have a particularly major presence in the storyline, but he is usually seen hovering around in the background at Joffrey's royal court.
Tywin's dialogue in "The Children" confirms that the character is still alive and active as of the end of Season 4.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ilyn Payne served as Tywin's captain of household guards when Tywin served Aerys II Targaryen as the Hand of the King. After being heard to joke that it was Tywin who truly ruled the Seven Kingdoms, Aerys ordered Payne's tongue be removed with hot pincers. Even though he was high in Tywin's service, Tywin couldn't stop the Mad King, and this was another step in the increasing tensions between the two which eventually led to Tywin's resignation. Robert named Ser Ilyn as King's Justice as a present to Tywin to compensate Payne for the loss of his tongue while in service to the Lannisters.
In the books, Ser Ilyn arrives at Robert's camp with Renly Baratheon and Ser Barristan Selmy to provide escort back to King's Landing. When Gregor Clegane is terrorizing the Riverlands, Ser Ilyn's name is put forward to be sent to carry out the Hand's orders to arrest him, but because of his ties to the Lannisters Eddard sends Beric Dondarrion instead.
When Jaime returns to King's Landing, he practices first with his friend Addam Marbrand, but fearing that Addam may get drunk and reveal that Jaime has become a poor fighter, he moves to practice with Ilyn, not Bronn. Ilyn is much tougher with Jaime, but he prefers it this way, knowing that his secret is safe with him. After every practice, they sit and drink together. Jaime finds Ilyn the perfect drinking companion, as he never interrupts him, never disagrees, never complains, never asks for favors and never tells long pointless stories. Jaime feels comfortable to chat with Ilyn so much that he reveals his darkest secrets to him.
Ilyn, not Bronn, accompanies Jaime to the siege of Riverrun. On the way they continue practicing. While they walk through the siege camps, a drunken camp follower moves to kiss Ilyn, but when she sees his eyes, she shrinks away. At Jaime's command, Ilyn cuts Edmure loose from the gallows.
Ser Ilyn is a highly skilled executioner having never botched an execution and seldom requiring more than one blow. Ser Ilyn Payne is described as thin, bald, with clean-shaven but hollow and pockmarked cheeks, with colorless deep-set eyes. He wears iron-grey chainmail over boiled leather.
Ilyn is illiterate. After his tongue was removed he can no longer communicate complex messages to other people.
By the point the books reached, Ilyn is one of four people with whom Arya has not settled the score yet (the other three are Cersei, Meryn Trant and Dunsen).
Mycah was a butcher's son who befriended Arya Stark.
He travels the Kingsroad with his father as part of King Robert Baratheon's retinue.
When he is encountered by Joffrey Baratheon practicing sword-fighting with Arya, Joffrey bullies him for 'pretending to be a knight'. Despite his protests that the weapon he was using was only a stick, Joffrey sadistically and slowly slashes his cheek with his sword, prompting Arya to attack him, throwing his sword into the stream. Mycah manages to escape, but later is killed by the Hound at Joffrey's orders, much to Ned Stark's disdain. When confronted by Ned about the foul deed, the remorseless Hound dryly says that Mycah didn't run fast enough.
The Brotherhood Without Banners sentences the Hound to trial by combat for Mycah's murder after Arya accuses him. After defeating Beric Dondarrion, the Hound teases Arya by saying that R'hllor apparently likes him more than Mycah.
Arya teases the Hound that he is fine with murdering little boys (obviously referring to Mycah), but thieving is beneath him.
He is mentioned by the Hound when he is trying to convince Arya to kill him. He says that Mycah "begged for mercy", that he killed him anyways, and that his saddle "smelled like butcher boy for weeks".
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Mycah is thirteen years old. He falls in with King Robert Baratheon's party as it returns to King's Landing from Winterfell and befriends Arya Stark.
After the Hound defeats Beric Dondarrion, he teases Arya by telling her (without the slightest remorse or regret) "I rode him [Mycah] down and cut him in half, and laughed".
Sansa does not care at all about Mycah's death. On the contrary, on one accasion she teases Arya by telling that Mycah attacked Joffrey (contradicting her previous lies that she didn't remember what happened, because the event occurred too fast).
According to Jeyne Poole, Mycah has been cut up in so many pieces that his body was brought back to his father in a bag; at first the poor man had thought it was a slaughtered pig.
Joffrey and Sansa come across Arya and her friend Mycah playing at swordfighting with sticks. Joffrey threatens Mycah with Lion's Tooth, cutting his cheek with it. Ayra strikes Joffrey in Mycah's defense, and Joffrey turns on her, slashing at her with the sword. Nymeria attacks Joffrey in Arya's defense, causing him to drop Lion's Tooth. Ayra picks it up and, after holding it to Joffrey's wimpering face, tosses it into the Trident. The sword is never recovered.
On the eve of the Battle of the Blackwater, Joffrey has it replaced with a new sword, Hearteater.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the history of the sword is the same.
Later, in the third novel, Arya inaccurately remembers the name of Joffrey's sword as "Lion's Paw" instead of "Lion's Tooth". George R.R. Martin has stated that he intended this mistake in-universe (it wasn't a typographical error), one of his points highlighting that the characters' memories are not infallible.
Nymeria is one of six direwolf pups found by the children of House Stark. Nymeria is adopted and raised by Arya Stark. After Nymeria leaves Arya, she becomes the leader of a huge wolf pack in the Riverlands. She and her brother Ghost are now the only living members of the pack.
Arya named her after Nymeria of Dorne, the warrior-queen of the Rhoynar who lived a thousand years ago.
Nymeria is adopted as a pup along with the rest of her siblings when Eddard and his entourage come upon the pups and their deceased mother. At Jon's request, the pups are spared a quick death, and each Stark child adopts one as their own.
Arya trains her to help her pack for the journey south to King's Landing. In front of Jon, Arya demands Nymeria bring her her gloves, but she merely stares at Arya, obviously not understanding. She accompanies her as far as the Inn at the Crossroads.
Nymeria bites Joffrey in defense of Arya.
Arya bids farewell to Nymeria.
During a fight between Arya and Joffrey, in which Joffrey knocks Arya down and threatens to gut her, Nymeria protects Arya by biting Joffrey's arm. Arya, fearing for Nymeria's well-being, takes her away and forces her to leave. After the incident, Cersei wants Nymeria dead, even though it was Joffrey who started the fight. However, as she is nowhere to be found, her sister, Lady is killed in her place despite her innocence and the protests of Arya and Sansa.
Arya approaches her old direwolf.
On the way to Winterfell, when Arya stops to take a rest, she is surrounded by a pack of wolves. One of them turns out to be a direwolf, appearing a lot larger than the others. Arya recognizes Nymeria, who appears to be the leader of the pack. As Arya approaches the direwolf she raised, she tells her that she's going home and asks her to come with her, but Nymeria refuses and leaves along with her pack. Arya realizes that Nymeria has a new life now and is no longer attached to her anymore.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Nymeria is an exuberant and playful wolf, but is also fiercely defensive of Arya Stark. Arya names her for Nymeria, the warrior-queen of the Rhoynar who led her people to safety in Dorne, a thousand years before the events of the series.
Nymeria's fate is not explicitly revealed in the books, although Arya occasionally dreams about her; also, there are rumors about a huge she-wolf, which is presumably Nymeria.
During the march with Yoren's caravan, Arya overhears a conversation about a huge female wolf (referred to as "a bitch from the seventh hell") that leads a pack around the Gods Eye, and has no fear of men; that wolf allegedly has torn a baby from his mother's arms, and when Lord William Mooton heard that - he and his sons rode out to hunt her, but were forced to retreat, losing their hounds in the process. Arya cannot stop herself from stating aloud it is just a story; Yoren quickly pulls her away, before she attracts unwanted attention. Arya muses sadly that Nymeria probably wouldn’t even recognize her now, and if she did - she’d hate her.
In the third novel, Arya dreams that Nymeria and her pack attack Iggo and three more of the Brave Companions, killing them all. Later, through her warg bond with Nymeria, Arya finds her mother's body in a river. She drags her to the shore and tries to wake her, but flees when she sees horsemen approaching. When Arya wakes up, she realizes that her mother is dead.
While in the House of Black and White, Arya frequently dreams that she is a direwolf leading a pack of grey wolves in the Riverlands.
Septon Meribald tells Brienne about a pack of hundreds of wolves that prowls along the Trident, rumored to be led by a monstrous she-wolf, which brings aurochs down all by herself, that no trap nor snare can hold her, fears neither steel nor fire, slays any wolf that tries to mount her, and devours no other flesh but man. The she-wolf in question is presumably Nymeria, though the rumors are probably exaggerated.
After Brynden Tully escapes from Riverrun, Nymeria helps him indirectly by delaying his pursuers: Jaime sends Ser Addam Marbrand and Ser Dermot of the Rainwood to find Brynden; the next day, Ser Dermot returns and reports that his party was attacked by a pack of hundreds of wolves, led by an enormous female direwolf. The wolves killed two sentries and horses. Hearing that, Jaime wonders if the she-direwolf in question is the same one that mauled Joffrey.
In the fifth novel, Jon sees Nymeria through his warg bond with Ghost, with a hundred small grey wolves of her pack; the pack often preys on sheep, cows and horses, and sometimes human flesh. Arya experiences wolf dreams, in one of them Nymeria and her pack feast on a shepherd, his dogs and flock; other wolves of her pack are afraid of humans, even dead ones, but she is not.
It seems that Arya is not bothered by the fact that Nymeria has become man-eater; perhaps it reflects Arya's own personality, who has recently murdered several people who never did any wrong to her, her family or her friends (among them the old insurance seller).
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Nymeria" is pronounced "Nigh-MEER-ee-uh", as opposed to "Nih-MER-ee-uh".
The Red Keep is the residence of the King of the Andals and the First Men, his family and his court, located within King's Landing, the capital of the Seven Kingdoms. It dominates the skyline of the city and serves as the city's primary fortress and redoubt. It also houses the Small Council, the royal privy council and government.
Located in the southeastern corner of King's Landing, the Red Keep overlooks Blackwater Bay and the Narrow Sea. It is currently the seat of King Bran Stark. Before this, it was briefly held by Queen Daenerys Targaryen, after she took it back from Queen Cersei Lannister following the Battle of King's Landing. It was the former seat of King Tommen Baratheon, King Joffrey Baratheon, King Robert Baratheon, and before him the seat of the Targaryen kings.
The Red Keep took three reigns to build, starting with Aegon the Conqueror and ending with Maegor the Cruel. It started as a primitive fort, then named the "Aegonfort," that Aegon used as his seat during the War of Conquest and would come to house the Iron Throne. Sometime after the Conquest, he ordered that the fort be torn down and began construction on the ambitious Red Keep. When King Maegor finished it, he executed all of its builders to ensure that only the Targaryens knew of the hidden passageways within.
Following the Battle of King's Landing, the Red Keep has sustained severe damage after Drogon set fire to many parts of the castle and its base, and collapsed many of its towers. However, it was also one of the few buildings left somewhat intact. Following Daenerys's death, certain areas of the castle, including Maegor's Holdfast and the White Sword Tower have been refurbished or rebuilt to house the new government. However, several parts of the castle, including the great hall and several towers remain in ruin.
The Great Hall is the massive throne room of the Red Keep and is where the Iron Throne was situated. The King (or his Hand, in the event of the King's absence), holds court and receives petitioners within the Great Hall. It is also employed for official ceremonies.
Maegor's Holdfast is a strut tower in the centre of the Red Keep. It was named after King Maegor Targaryen, who built the Red Keep. It serves as a redoubt when the city is attacked. The royal apartments are also located in Maegor's Holdfast.
Maegor's Holdfast served as a refuge for Queen Cersei and the highborn ladies of the Red Keep during the Battle of the Blackwater.
When Cersei declares herself Queen and the Lannisters engage in a war with Daenerys Targaryen and her allies, Cersei has the floor of a courtyard at the top of the Holdfast painted with a battle map of Westeros, replacing the previous plants and ivories there, essentially becoming a Lannister version of the Chamber of the Painted Table.
The Tower of the Hand was the location of the quarters and offices of the Hand of the King. The Hand's family, household and guards also live and work in the Tower of the Hand.
When Tywin Lannister assumes his Hand duties for King Joffrey he arranges for the meetings of the Small Council to be held in the Tower of the Hand to assert his authority. He is later killed by his son, Tyrion Lannister, whilst in the privy by a crossbow.
The White Sword Tower houses the chambers of the Kingsguard.
The Maidenvault was built under orders of King Baelor I Targaryen to imprison his sisters Daena, Rhaena, and Elaena to prevent them from inciting any carnal thought in the pious king.
The Red Keep's Godswood overlooks the Blackwater Rush. It has no weirwood as the Red Keep is not an ancient castle from the time the Old Gods of the Forest held sway south of the Neck.
The Traitor's Walk is an outer corridor on one of the sides of the Red Keep with a view to one of its outer walls. The heads of criminals and traitors are placed on spikes over the said wall, visible both to the exterior of the Red Keep and whoever passes through the corridor.
Following the arrest and execution of Eddard Stark, his head and those of his entire household were placed on the wall beside the Traitor's Walk.
The dungeons of the Red Keep are divided into four levels:
The Red Keep, according to rumors, is full of miles of secret passages running behind the walls and below the floors. Maegor the Cruel had the builders of the Red Keep executed after the castle was completed to keep the secret of the passageways.
Production Designer Gemma Jackson said that the look of the floor in the Red Keep is based on the Pantheon in Rome.
In A Song of Ice and Fire, the Red Keep is a major castle complex located at the south-eastern corner of the city of King's Landing, directly overlooking the Blackwater Rush and Blackwater Bay. It is built atop Aegon's High Hill, the tallest hill of the city, and affords a panoramic view of the rest of the city. It consists of several interconnected buildings, such as the main keep, a secondary castle called Maegor's Holdfast and the Tower of the Hand, the seat of the Hand of the King. White Sword Tower is the base of operations for the Kingsguard. The Red Keep is so-named due to the Redstone bricks used to build it.
The Red Keep was built approximately three centuries before the events of the series and replaced an earlier wooden fort called "Aegonfort", built by King Aegon I Targaryen where he first set foot on the continent and used as his base of operations in his conquest of Westeros. After Aegon deemed the fort unsuitable for the rule, he took the royal court to Dragonstone and ruled there for many years until his death. The construction of the Keep was an immense undertaking, spanning the reign of the first few Targaryen kings, although modifications and additions to the castle have been made ever since.
Histories & Lore:"Mad King Aerys: House Baratheon""Mad King Aerys: House Stark""Robert's Rebellion: House Targaryen""The Alchemist Guild""The Red Keep""Robert's Rebellion: Petyr Baelish and Varys""Robert's Rebellion: Oberyn Martell""Robert's Rebellion: Barristan Selmy""The Great Tourney at Harrenhal""Robert's Rebellion: Jaime Lannister"
Lord Rickard Stark was the Lord of Winterfell, Warden of the North, and head of House Stark until he was executed along with his eldest son and heir Brandon by the Mad King, Aerys II Targaryen. He was the father of Brandon, Eddard, Lyanna and Benjen Stark. Both Rickard Stark and the Mad King are grandfathers to Jon Snow.
Rickard and Brandon are arrested by Targaryen guards.
Rickard is burned alive with wildfire by the Mad King.
Rickard Stark was the head of House Stark and Warden of the North. He served under King Aerys II (known as the Mad King). He was saved from drowning by Ser Arthur Dayne during the siege of White Harbor by the outlaw Sea Kings. Rickard is the father of Brandon, Eddard, Lyanna and Benjen Stark. He arranged for the betrothal of his daughter Lyanna to Robert Baratheon, the Lord Paramount of the Stormlands. He also betrothed his son and heir Brandon to Catelyn, the daughter of Hoster Tully, Lord Paramount of the Trident. Both engagements were broken when Prince Rhaegar Targaryen allegedly abducted Lyanna.[citation needed]
When Lyanna was kidnapped by Rhaegar, Rickard's eldest son and heir, Brandon, rode to King's Landing seeking justice. Aerys imprisoned Brandon and ordered that Rickard ride south to answer for his son's impertinence. Against advice, Rickard agreed, assuming that the matter would be settled through a trial or a bargain of some kind. Instead, Aerys had Rickard burned alive while Brandon strangled himself trying to save his father.
Aerys then ordered Jon Arryn to hand over his ward and new Lord of Winterfell Eddard Stark. Having sworn a sacred oath to protect Eddard, Jon instead rose his banners in rebellion. He was supported by the North, Lyanna's betrothed Robert, and Hoster Tully. This sparked the beginning of the war known as Robert's Rebellion, which led to the near-destruction of House Targaryen and its removal from the Iron Throne.
Reaching King's Landing, Eddard is greeted by Jaime in the throne room, who recalls listening to Eddard's father and brother scream as hundreds watched them die at the whim of the Mad King. He suggests his assassination of the Mad King was an act of justice, but Eddard dismisses that as a paltry self-justification for breaking his solemn Kingsguard vows.
Barristan Selmy vaguely alludes to Rickard and his son Brandon's deaths when he tells her about how her father murdered sons in front of their fathers and how his actions led to a rebellion that killed every Targaryen, save for Daenerys and her other brother Viserys, who has also since died.
Later, when Tyrion is advising Daenerys about her strategy of reclaiming the Iron Throne, he points out her lack of support by the Great Houses. As he lists them, he reminds her that House Stark is gone due to the actions of their "two terrible fathers" though he doesn't discuss the specifics - her father executing Rickard and Brandon and his father orchestrating the Red Wedding.
Bran, with the aid of the Three-Eyed Raven, has a greensight vision of Lord Rickard give some parting words to the young Ned Stark as he prepares to leave Winterfell to be fostered in the Eyrie. Rickard advises his son to comport himself with dignity and stay out of fights, but implores him to win if he must fight. Seeing and hearing his grandfather for the first time brings a smile to Bran's face.
When Jon Snow agrees to meet with Daenerys to discuss an alliance, Sansa angrily reminds him what Daenerys's father did to their grandfather. Jon refuses to bend the knee to Daenerys, reminding her of how her father executed his grandfather and uncle. Daenerys admits that her father was an evil man and asks forgiveness for the crimes he committed against House Stark.
After the execution of Randyll and Dickon Tarly, following the Battle of the Goldroad, Varys compares Daenerys to Aerys, as he did the same with Rickard and Brandon. Varys then implores Tyrion to make her listen, fearing that this will make her be viewed in a similar vision to her father.
Rickard is mentioned under the entry about Ser Arthur Dayne, in The Book of Brothers, which the new Lord Commander of the Kingsguard Brienne of Tarth is flicking through.
* Bran's vision
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Rickard's role is unchanged. His wife Lyarra, with whom we had his four aforementioned children, was his first cousin once removed (her name was already "Lyarra Stark" before they were married). Her father was named Rodrik Stark, and he was the younger brother of Rickard's grandfather Willam Stark. First cousin marriage is not considered incest in Westeros.
In A Clash of Kings, Jaime explains to Catelyn just how he died: Rickard demanded trial by combat to clear his son's name, assuming he would face a Kingsguard such as Jaime, but the Mad King had him locked in a cage with fire spewing beneath it, saying "Fire is the champion of House Targaryen" and mockingly offering that all he had to do to win the trial was not to burn. When Brandon tried to stop his father's death, he ended up strangling himself due to the device the Targaryen men had strapped him to. Jaime did not say how many knights were present, only that Gerold Hightower was there, and (having noticed Jaime's visible disgust at the proceedings) told him afterwards that they were sworn to defend the king, not to judge him.
In A Storm of Swords, Jaime offers to swear an oath not to harm Brienne in exchange for being unchained, so that the two of them can share watches after they are attacked. When Brienne reminds Jaime about how he broke his oath to the Mad King, Jaime alludes to Rickard's death saying she never cooked anyone in their armor as far as he knows.
Rickard's father was Lord Edwyle Stark, son of Willam. Edwyle's sister (Rickard's aunt) married a junior member of House Royce from the Vale, and through her the Royces are blood relatives of the Starks. The Royce whom Rickard's aunt married was a member of the cadet branch of the main line of that family known as House Royce of the Gates of the Moon (or perhaps, he was specifically the founder of that cadet branch). Thus Nestor Royce, the head of House Royce of the Gates of the Moon at the time of the War of the Five Kings, is Eddard Stark's second cousin. After hearing of the Sack of Winterfell and the alleged deaths of his brothers, Robb Stark felt the need to name a new heir (otherwise the Lannisters would press a claim to Winterfell through Sansa's forced marriage to Tyrion). Catelyn suggested naming one of the Royces due to this distant blood relationship, but Robb insisted on naming Jon - either way, the point was rendered moot after the deaths of them both and the destruction of the Northern army at the Red Wedding.
Brandon Stark was the heir of Rickard Stark, the Lord of Winterfell, and the older brother of Eddard, Lyanna and Benjen Stark. He was killed by strangulation by the Mad King when he protested the kidnapping of Lyanna by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen. His father Rickard died along with him by wildfire.
Brandon Stark was the eldest son and heir of Lord Rickard Stark of Winterfell.
Brandon spares Petyr Baelish's life at Catelyn Tully's urging.
Brandon's father arranged for his betrothal to Catelyn Tully. Brandon fought for Catelyn in a duel with Littlefinger. He defeated Baelish easily, nearly disemboweling him in the process, but Catelyn begged Brandon to spare his life. The maesters were able to save Baelish and he eventually recovered, but he was left with a deep scar running from his stomach to his collarbone, a "token" from Brandon that Baelish would always carry with him.
During the Great Tourney at Harrenhal, he asked Ashara Dayne if she would dance with his bashful younger brother Eddard.
Brandon strangles himself trying to save his father.
Brandon was killed on the order of Aerys, along with his father, after they protested the kidnapping of Lyanna by Rhaegar. Rickard was burned alive inside his armor with wildfire, while Brandon was tied to a strangulation device, with a sword mere inches from his hands and strangled himself by trying to reach the sword. This brutal act triggered Robert's Rebellion, the civil war that led to the removal of House Targaryen from the Iron Throne.
Reaching King's Landing, Eddard is greeted by Jaime in the throne room, who recalls listening to Eddard's father and brother scream as hundreds watched them die at the whim of the Mad King. He suggests his assassination of the Mad King was an act of justice, but Eddard dismisses that as a paltry self-justification for breaking his solemn vows. Shortly afterwards, Littlefinger recounts how Brandon wounded him in a duel. Eddard is unsympathetic to Littlefinger's predicament.
Lysa mentions Brandon while speaking to Sansa at the Eyrie. In a blind rant, she briefly compares Petyr's attraction to Sansa to Catelyn's infatuation with the late heir to Winterfell. She is clearly resentful of him for nearly killing Petyr in their duel, and Catelyn still loving him anyway.
Barristan Selmy vaguely alludes to Brandon and his father Rickard's deaths when he tells her about how her father murdered sons in front of their fathers and how his actions led to a rebellion that killed every Targaryen, save for Daenerys and her other brother Viserys, who has also since died.
Later, when Tyrion is advising Daenerys about her strategy of reclaiming the Iron Throne, he points out her lack of support by the Great Houses. As he lists them, he reminds her that House Stark is effectively dead due to the actions of their "two terrible fathers" though he doesn't discuss the specifics - her father executing Brandon and Rickard and his father orchestrating the Red Wedding.
Jon Snow refuses to bend the knee to Daenerys, reminding her of how her father executed his uncle and grandfather. Daenerys admits her father was an evil man and asks forgiveness for the crimes that he committed against House Stark.
King Aerys II Targaryen watches as Brandon Stark strangles himself.
An unidentified actor was cast to play Brandon in a flashback scene. Footage of the scene appeared in the "Fear and Blood" first season trailer but has not appeared in any aired episode of the series. The scene was cut for time reasons.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Brandon was rather hot-blooded, something his younger brother described as coming from the wolfblood. He shared this trait with his sister; Eddard believes this led them both to an early death. Brandon was tall and handsome, and was an excellent swordsman and jouster. Lady Dustin claims that Brandon was absolutely not shy about taking what he wanted.
According to Catelyn, Brandon and Eddard were totally different: Brandon was tall and handsome, and had a fiery personality, while Eddard was shorter and plainer of face, and very somber and reserved.
In his youth, Brandon was fostered at Barrowton with Lord Dustin, father of Willam Dustin, but he spent most his time riding in the Rills. Brandon and Lyanna both loved to ride; Lady Dustin compares them to "a couple of centaurs". Brandon also enjoyed practicing sword-play, and loved his sword. In his youth, he took the maidenhead of Lady Dustin, who was infatuated with him. When he was fifteen, he was promised to Catelyn, who was twelve at the time. Lady Dustin claims that Brandon never wanted to marry Catelyn, and that the match was made when Rickard's maester, Walys Flowers, put the idea in Rickard's head.
Shortly after the aforementioned confrontation between Brandon and Littlefinger, Rhaegar kidnapped Lyanna. Brandon and a group of close friends, all sons of powerful lords, rode to King's Landing to seek redress from the Mad King. Aerys, furious that anyone would question his son's actions, took Brandon prisoner and summoned Rickard to answer for his impertinence. He had both Starks executed: Rickard was cooked alive in his armor by pyromancers led by Wisdom Rossart, while Brandon watched, bound with a leather cord around his neck and a longsword just out of reach, strangling himself trying to get to the sword to save his father.
Brandon's brother Eddard became Lord of Winterfell, married Catelyn in his stead, and raised the banners of rebellion, beginning a bloody civil war that ended with deaths of both Rhaegar and the Mad King.
In the books, Brandon was described as a larger and more handsome man than his younger brother Ned. The TV series makes a departure from this, with Littlefinger stating that Eddard is an "even more impressive specimen" than his older brother - though it's possible that Littlefinger meant that Eddard was also a much better partner for marriage (Brandon had a fiery temper and was known as the "Wild Wolf", while Eddard was reserved and dignified).
The Execution of Rickard and Brandon Stark ​was one of the events that led to the outbreak of Robert's Rebellion.
For unknown reasons, the heir to the Iron Throne Prince Rhaegar Targaryen abducted Lyanna Stark, the daughter of Lord Rickard Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North and hid her away in Dorne. This event was extremely scandalous as Lyanna was betrothed to Lord Robert Baratheon, the Lord Paramount of the Stormlands and Rhaegar was married to Princess Elia Martell, with whom he had two children.
After Lyanna's abduction, her older brother Brandon was enraged and rode to King's Landing demanding the release of his sister and the death of Rhaegar. Aerys arrested him for treason and called for his father to come to the capital to ransom him. When Lord Rickard complied, Aerys, now utterly mad, arrested him for treason as well.
Lord Rickard demanded a trial by combat, and Aerys declared "fire" the champion of the House Targaryen. He had Lord Rickard suspended from the rafters of the throne room while pyromancers lit a blaze beneath him. As he burned, Brandon was brought into the throne room with a leather cord attached to a strangulation device wrapped around his neck. Aerys told Brandon his father was a dead man but there was a chance to save him. A longsword was placed on the floor just out of Brandon's reach, and the more he struggled to reach it, the more the cord tightened around his throat. Brandon Stark strangled himself trying to free his father, who was roasted alive in his own armor. The entire court stood and watched this atrocity take place, Jaime and the Kingsguard among them.
The horrific and unjust way in which Rickard and Brandon were killed, along with Lyanna's abduction, led to Houses Baratheon, Stark, and Arryn rebelling against the Iron Throne.
Their deaths left Eddard to inherit Rickard's responsibilities, becoming the new Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North. Brandon had been betrothed to Catelyn, and Eddard also inherited his brother's bride. House Tully would soon join the rebellion after the marriages of Eddard to Catelyn Tully and Jon Arryn to Lysa Tully. House Lannister joined very late when it became obvious that the rebels would win.
Many years later, during his first meeting with Daenerys, Jon Snow relates to the execution of his uncle and grandfather (incorrectly stating that they were both burned alive). Daenerys admits that her father was an evil man, and formally apologizes on behalf of House Targaryen.
King Aerys II Targaryen watches as Brandon Stark strangles himself.
The execution was set to be featured in a flashback scene. Footage of the scene appeared in the "Fear and Blood" first season trailer but has not appeared in any aired episode of the series. The scene was cut for time restrictions.
In the scene, Aerys was played by Liam Burke and Brandon was played by an unidentified actor. It is unknown if an actor was cast to play Rickard.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Brandon received word of Lyanna's abduction en route to Riverrun for his wedding to Catelyn Tully. Brandon, along with his squire Ethan Glover, Kyle Royce, Elbert Arryn, and Jeffory Mallister, rode to King's Landing immediately, while Hoster Tully became incensed, thinking it a rash action. Upon entering the Red Keep, Brandon shouted for Rhaegar to "come out and die". Rhaegar was not there to answer the challenge; they were arrested by King Aerys and charged with plotting Rhaegar's murder.
Aerys had them all imprisoned on charges of conspiring to kill the crown prince and summoned their fathers to answer for the crimes of their sons. The nobles went and were immediately executed with their sons by Aerys. As was his right, Rickard demanded a trial by combat. Aerys granted Rickard's request but to Aerys, the Targaryen champion was fire. He had Rickard burned, with the pyromancer Rossart lighting a fire beneath him while Rickard was dressed in his armor. Brandon was made to watch his father die with a noose around his neck and a sword just out of his reach. Trying to reach the sword to save his father, Brandon strangled himself.
Aerys would become sexually aroused while watching someone burn and would then brutally rape his sister-wife Rhaella. Based on the amount of time that elapsed between the start of the the rebellion and her birth, it is likely that their daughter Daenerys was conceived in the aftermath of Rickard and Brandon's murder.
When Catelyn Stark interrogates Jaime, he tells her in detail about the execution of Rickard and Brandon. The only difference from the story told in the show is that Jaime does not say there were five hundred knights present, but mentions only Gerold Hightower, who noticed that Jaime disapproved of the unjust atrocity and told him "You swore a vow to guard the king, not to judge him".
King Aerys II Targaryen,[N 2] commonly called the Mad King, was the sixteenth member of House Targaryen to rule from the Iron Throne. Although his rule began benevolently, he succumbed to the madness caused by his incestuous lineage, and was eventually deposed by Lord Robert Baratheon in a civil war.
Aerys fought for his father, Aegon V Targaryen, in the War of the Ninepenny Kings. He took on the tradition of Targaryen inbreeding in order to keep bloodlines pure by marrying his sister Rhaella Targaryen. After his father and brother died at the Tragedy at Summerhall, he became Aerys Targaryen, the Second of His Name. While he was young, Aerys appeared to be generous, ambitious and wise, beginning his reign as peaceful and prosperous. Aerys was loved and respected by both lords and commoners.[citation needed]
He later became spiteful of the power of others, especially that of his Hand of the King, Tywin Lannister, who had once been one of his closest friends. He eventually grew paranoid of his own family members and his Small Council. During the Defiance of Duskendale, Aerys was imprisoned and tormented for six months, until he was rescued by Ser Barristan Selmy, his imprisonment marking the beginning of Aerys's madness. He executed all those who were involved in the rebellion; the worst punishment was given to Lord Denys's wife, Serala, first mutilated and then burned alive. Commonly remembered as "the Mad King", his reign became increasingly erratic and murderous.[citation needed]
Despite the fact that nobody expected Aerys to turn up, he suddenly arrived at the Great Tourney at Harrenhal. During this tourney, Aerys knighted Jaime Lannister and admitted him to the Kingsguard, but not for his valor and honor. Instead, he wanted to spite his Hand, Tywin Lannister. His eldest son, Rhaegar Targaryen, competed in the tourney, and after winning, he shunned his own wife, Elia Martell, and laid his winning roses in the lap of Lyanna Stark of Winterfell.[citation needed]
Aerys watches Rickard and Brandon Stark die.
A final round of bloodletting began when Rhaegar allegedly kidnapped Lyanna, prompting many houses in the realm to rebel. Brandon Stark rode to King's Landing, protesting the abduction of his sister and demanding justice. Aerys had him arrested for treason and then offered to ransom him to his father. However, when Rickard Stark rode to King's Landing as he was bid to ransom Brandon, Aerys had him arrested too, and then brutally executed both father and son.
Afterward, Aerys demanded Jon Arryn to turn over Eddard Stark and Robert Baratheon (who were still in the Eyrie) to await the king's justice. Instead, Jon called his banners and rebelled, with the noble houses of Stark, Tully, and Baratheon following suit. The rebellion destroyed the royalist armies in several major engagements, culminating in the Battle of the Trident where Prince Rhaegar died at the hands of Lyanna's betrothed Robert Baratheon, the leader of the rebels.[citation needed]
Aerys is slain by his Kingsguard Jaime Lannister.
King Aerys was betrayed by his former friend and Hand Tywin Lannister, who led an army under the false pretense of defending the capital at King's Landing. When Aerys opened the gates under Grand Maester Pycelle's counsel, Tywin proceeded to brutally sack the city. Aerys ordered Jaime to bring him Tywin's head, before ordering his pyromancer, Rossart, to initiate the wildfire plot. In response, Jaime killed Rossart, before stabbing Aerys in the back, who tried to flee, and then cutting his throat, ending his reign and thwarting his insane plot.
Aerys's lineage continued through his son, Viserys and daughter, Daenerys; both siblings and Aerys himself unaware of the birth of Rhaegar's second son.
Aerys's death is not avenged, as Robert Baratheon pardoned Jaime at the end of the war. It also brought an end to the Targaryen dynasty, which had ruled the Seven Kingdoms for three centuries. Aerys was replaced on the Iron Throne by Robert. However, the Targaryen bloodline survived through his grandson, Jon Snow (the product of Rhaegar's secret marriage to Lyanna, the two eloping in mutual love rather than the latter being kidnapped), who was passed off as a bastard of Winterfell by his maternal uncle Eddard, and his two youngest children, Viserys and Daenerys, who were spirited away to the Free Cities.[citation needed]
King Aerys orders Ser Ilyn Payne's tongue to be cut out.
As they travel to King's Landing, King Robert talks about having Aerys's daughter Daenerys assassinated after hearing of her marriage to Khal Drogo. When Eddard protests, Robert reminds him of what Aerys did to his family. Later at the Inn at the Crossroads, Sandor Clegane tells Sansa Stark about how Ser Ilyn Payne hasn't had much to say since Aerys had Ser Ilyn's tongue torn out.
When Eddard arrives in the Great Hall of the Red Keep, he is confronted by Ser Jaime Lannister, who expresses his bitterness at Eddard for judging him over his killing of Aerys, especially after he killed Eddard's father and brother. Eddard counters that Jaime wasn't motivated by justice when he killed Aerys, and that he had served him loyally when serving was safe.
Ser Barristan Selmy of the Kingsguard recounts to King Robert I Baratheon how Aerys ordered him to destroy the Kingswood Brotherhood. Selmy himself killed their leader, Simon Toyne. Bored and attempting to mock Ser Jaime, King Robert realizes that he never asked Jaime what King Aerys Targaryen's last words were, then taunts Jaime for killing a defenseless old man he had sworn to protect. Jaime tersely responds that the last thing the Mad King said was the same thing he'd been raving for hours, since the sack of the capital by the rebels began: "Burn them all!" This silences Robert's levity.
Aemon, the maester sworn to Castle Black, the main fortress of the Night's Watch, reveals to Jon Snow that he is the uncle of King Aerys and, because of his oath to the Night's Watch, he could not interfere during the rebellion. Aemon warns Jon that he must live with whatever decision he makes for the rest of his life, and urges him to not abandon the Night's Watch after hearing of Eddard Stark's unjust imprisonment.
Grand Maester Pycelle recalls that King Aerys was initially a good man. He then laments that he saw Aerys melt away before his eyes, as madness increasingly gripped his mind over the years and a once charming man was consumed by dreams of fire and blood.
When Tyrion Lannister publicly reprimands his nephew King Joffrey for his treatment of Sansa Stark, Joffrey retorts that he is king and he can do as he likes. Tyrion replies that Aerys did as he liked and his actions ultimately led to his downfall, mentioning his death at the hands of Joffrey's uncle Jaime. Wisdom Hallyne of the Alchemists' Guild mentions Aerys as a fervent supporter of the guild. Aerys became obsessed with wildfire in his later years. He reminds Bronn that he would not have dared to insult the guild while Aerys was alive. When Catelyn Stark confronts Jaime Lannister about his various crimes, including his regicide of Aerys, he sarcastically replies, "And what a king he was."
When held by Roose Bolton at Harrenhal, Jaime Lannister reveals the true story of the Mad King's death to Brienne of Tarth:
As the Targaryens were losing the war, Aerys had his pyromancers place caches of wildfire all over King's Landing: under the Great Sept of Baelor, under the slums of Flea Bottom, under houses, stables, taverns, and even under the Red Keep itself. After Robert's victory at the Trident he marched on the capital city, but Jaime's father Tywin arrived there first, leading the entire Lannister army, and promising to defend the city. Jaime warned Aerys that his father was never a man to choose the losing side, that this must be a trick and he should surrender the city while he still could, but the Mad King refused to listen. Nor did Aerys listen to Varys when he gave the same warning that Tywin couldn't be trusted - but he did listen to Grand Maester Pycelle, who convinced Aerys the Lannisters were there to help.
Aerys opened the city gates, and the Lannisters proceeded to sack the city. Jaime again begged Aerys to surrender, but the Mad King ordered Jaime to bring him Tywin's head, and his pyromancer (Wisdom Rossart) to set the city ablaze with the hidden wildfire, burning its five hundred thousand inhabitants to death, rather than lose the city to the rebels. "Burn them all," Aerys said, "Burn them in their homes. Burn them in their beds." Jaime makes it plain to Brienne that was his breaking point and asks her what she would do if her precious Renly commanded her to kill her own father and then stand by and do nothing as he murdered thousands of innocent people; she can only sit in shocked silence. Jaime goes on to say that he killed the pyromancer first, then drove his sword into Aerys's back as the Mad King tried to run for his life. Even as he was dying, the Mad King kept raving, "Burn them all...Burn them all..." Shaken at the memory, Jaime speculates that King Aerys didn't believe he would die in the blaze, and that in his lunacy, the Mad King believed he would be reborn as a dragon in the fire, granting him the power to burn his enemies to ashes. Jaime then finished Aerys off by slitting his throat in order to make sure he died, concluding that Eddard Stark found him at that point.
In Meereen, Ser Barristan Selmy grows increasingly concerned about the actions taken by Aerys's daughter Daenerys, who had earlier brutally executed 163 slavers after conquering Meereen. He discusses his experience while serving as a Kingsguard to her father. Despite Barristan's deep loyalty to the Targaryen dynasty, he reveals to Daenerys that her enemies did not lie when they called her father the "Mad King." Barristan recalls how Aerys set towns and castles aflame, murdered sons in front of their fathers, and burned men alive with wildfire, laughing all the while. These brutal actions lead to a revolt that toppled the Targaryen dynasty. Daenerys insists she is not like her father, which Barristan agreed. Still, he states that like Daenerys, her father had ordered these brutalities because he too felt he was dispensing "justice" and it made him feel powerful and right, until the very end.
Aerys's legacy leads to the destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor, orchestrated by Cersei Lannister and Qyburn.
While still looking into the past and fleeing from the White Walkers, Bran Stark sees the Mad King's final hours as king in the waning days of Robert's Rebellion. This vision reveals wildfire being placed around King's Landing, and Ser Jaime Lannister killing Aerys as he continuously screams, "Burn them all!" The wildfire caches placed beneath the Great Sept of Baelor on Aerys's orders are later used by Cersei Lannister to destroy the Great Sept, killing many of her enemies in King's Landing as well as hundreds, if not thousands, of innocent people with one swift stroke.
Varys notes to Daenerys that her father was cruel and mad, and that Robert Baratheon was a vast improvement. Later, Olenna Tyrell explains how her father wasn't peaceful in the least, but Daenerys should be still be ruthless if she is to conquer the Seven Kingdoms.
After receiving a letter from Daenerys, Jon debates whether to meet her at Dragonstone, but Sansa reminds him of her father's role in the death of their grandfather.
Cersei then hosts the lords of the Reach at court, giving various hints that Daenerys will bring on the same tyranny as her father, as well as having a touch of the Targaryen madness.
Jon Snow brings up the fact that he shouldn't claim fealty to Daenerys, based on what her father did to his uncle and grandfather. Daenerys, though, makes a point to apologize on behalf of her house for the crimes of her father.
After the execution of Randyll and Dickon Tarly following the battle of the Goldroad, Varys compares Daenerys to Aerys, as he did the same with Rickard and Brandon Stark. Varys then implores Tyrion to make her listen, fearing that this will make her be viewed in a similar fashion to her father.
When Jaime tries to leave Cersei and ride north to fight the army of the dead, after its existence has been proven true by Jon Snow, she prevents him from leaving by threatening to kill him as a traitor. In this moment Jaime can see Cersei as the power-mad tyrant she really is. It's possible that Jaime can see a great resemblance to the Mad King in her, as she's willing to let the whole realm perish if that means she can keep her crown.
When Jaime arrives at Winterfell shortly before the Battle of Winterfell, Daenerys remembers the stories that her brother Viserys would tell her about "the man who killed their father" and what they would do to him once they conquered the Seven Kingdoms. Daenerys does not trust Jaime, but Sansa allows him to stay in Winterfell.
The caches of wildfire, placed beneath King's Landing at Aerys's orders years ago, detonate during the Battle of King's Landing by dragonfire, unleashed by Drogon at Daenerys's command. During the battle, Aerys's killer is killed alongside his sister Cersei, crushed by debris under the Red Keep. In a way, Daenerys avenged her father's death, but also carried out his diabolic plan which Jaime prevented years ago.
Ironically, Aerys's daughter suffers the same fate he did by being stabbed to death at the feet of the Iron Throne, and by his grandson no less. As Aerys's last child died, Jon Snow/Aegon Targaryen is the last known living member of House Targaryen.
Out of all the kings to sit on the Iron Throne, none induced a level of tyranny, madness, and especially cruelty as Aerys Targaryen did during his rule. Dubbed the Mad King, Aerys seemingly began as a benevolent ruler until he was overwhelmed by the so-called "Targaryen madness" brought on by an incestuous bloodline. As a result, he began displaying traits of intense psychopathy, insanity, and sadistic intentions, exacerbated by hallucinations, schizophrenia, and paranoia regarding his own claim to the Throne, to the point where he burnt anyone he believed was against him, until half of the people whom he ruled were already against him.
Like many Targaryens, such as his son Viserys, Aerys was obsessed with the self-conception that he was a dragon in human skin. In regards to this, he killed his victims in a similar manner to that which a dragon would; burning them alive. Jaime Lannister once observed that he loved watching them char until their skin blackened, indicating he may have suffered from pyromania, and this, combined with sadism and hopeless delusions, spurred his already oppressive reign into complete tyranny. In a final bid where it appeared Robert Baratheon would take King's Landing, Aerys planted wildfire throughout the city, even the Red Keep where Aerys himself was staying. Not for one second, however, did he believe that it would result in his death, like his uncle Prince Aerion Targaryen, who killed himself by drinking wildfire. Instead, he thought he would be reborn as a dragon through a baptism by fire and burn his enemies in retribution.
Aerys's perceived lack of sanity and rational thinking seemingly caused his own death. Instead of listening to Varys or Jaime who warned him that Tywin Lannister possessed an ulterior motive when promising to defend his city for him, he only listened to the extremely sycophantic Grand Maester Pycelle who told him only what he wanted to hear. When he saw that Tywin tricked him, he foolishly ordered Jaime to execute his own father, confident that he would do so as no Kingsguard had ever disobeyed him before. Just before his death, however, Aerys showed shock and fear for the first time under his rule as Jaime approached him after killing his pyromancer. He even attempted to flee, proving that even he feared what all other tyrants cannot control nor escape; death.
Liam Burke
Aerys watches as Brandon Stark is executed.
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Aerys Targaryen" is pronounced "AIR-eez Tar-GAIR-ee-in."
George R.R. Martin revealed that an actor had been cast as King Aerys II during Season 1 for filming a flashback scene of Rickard Stark and Brandon Stark's executions, but the scene was cut for time and pacing. Liam Burke was the actor in question.
David Rintoul played Aerys in the brief flashback in "Blood of My Blood." Unlike in the books, Aerys is portrayed as having little to no facial hair towards the end of his life - apparently just a drastic oversight on the part of the TV production team, as the animated Blu-ray shorts produced in Season 6 itself explicitly mentioned the Mad King's bizarre, unkempt appearance.
Aerys in his final years
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, his reign began with great promise. Taking the throne at only the age of 20, Aerys installed a number of younger, vigorous and capable men in positions of power, while his own son Rhaegar showed promise of being a great king in his turn. Aerys, impressed by young Tywin's ruthlessness and effectiveness in crushing the Reyne Rebellion, made him, then heir to Casterly Rock, his Hand of the King. Tywin served very effectively as Hand for twenty years, during which the Seven Kingdoms prospered.
Under Aerys's reign, the office of his Hand passed through five times and all of them suffered an unpleasant fate:
However, Aerys, who occasionally showed signs of a terrible temper, became erratic following the brief uprising known as the Defiance of Duskendale, when he was held prisoner for several months by a rebellious lord before finally being rescued by Barristan Selmy. Aerys's fury on that occasion was terrible: all of those involved in the incident were killed, several by being burned alive. After that, his rage could no longer be held in check.
Aerys's relationship with Tywin Lannister began to deteriorate in these later years, as Aerys grew ever more paranoid about Tywin's ambition. When Ser Ilyn Payne, captain of the guards for Tywin Lannister, made a joke that Tywin as Hand was the real ruler of Westeros, Aerys had his tongue cut out for the insult. Tywin could neither protest nor stop the punishment. The strains on their relationship were exacerbated by Aerys's well known lust for Tywin's wife Joanna Lannister, which the former crudely expressed during her bedding. (A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 43, Daenerys VII) His marriage with his own sister-wife, Queen Rhaella, which had never been happy (they were forced to marry against their will) became violent and abusive towards the end.
During Aerys's reign period there were various rumors about him and Joanna: that Aerys took Joanna's maidenhead on the night of his father Jaehaerys's coronation, and that Joanna was one of Aerys's many mistresses, which was the reason for her abrupt dismissal by the queen. Pycelle insisted those rumors were baseless. There were, however, occasions of improper behavior of Aerys toward Joanna: when she returned to the court with her six-year old twins, drunken Aerys asked her if nursing her children had ruined her breasts, humiliating her and Tywin. When she died giving birth to Tyrion, the king commented that was done by the gods to teach Tywin some humility at last. (The World of Ice and Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II)
Over the years Aerys became increasingly gripped by madness, experiencing vivid hallucinations and delusional paranoia. He became obsessed with fire, frequently burning his perceived enemies alive. Eventually, he was having women and babies roasted on spits in the throne room because the voices in his head told him they were plotting his ruin. Aerys would often become sexually aroused after burning someone to death, at which he would savagely rape his wife Queen Rhaella (his daughter Daenerys was the product of one such attack, quite possibly the same day he killed Rickard and Brandon Stark). Attempts to restrain Aerys's delusional behavior only fueled his paranoia that all were against him.
Aerys's growing madness took a drastic toll on his physical appearance. Fearful of allowing blades in his presence (save those of his sworn Kingsguard), Aerys ceased to have his hair or nails cut for years. By the time of Robert's Rebellion, his fingernails had grown nearly a foot long, and his long, filthy, tangled hair and beard hung below his shoulders. Increasingly paranoid that someone would attempt to poison him, he ate so rarely that he became extremely gaunt. Combined with the stress from his madness, by the time of the rebellion, when Aerys was only forty years old, he looked as old and haggard as a man twice his age. Due to his insane meanderings, he accidentally cut his hands and thighs so many times on the Iron Throne that they were practically covered in scabs, leading some to refer to him as "King Scab" behind his back.
Tywin had long hoped that Aerys would reward his service with a royal wedding, between his daughter Cersei and Prince Rhaegar. However, he was infuriated when Aerys snubbed him by saying that he was a mere servant of the crown, and no servant's daughter was fit to marry a prince of royal blood. Instead, he agreed to a marriage between Rhaegar and Elia Martell of Dorne. The last straw came when Aerys appointed Tywin's eldest son and heir Jaime Lannister to his Kingsguard. Normally this was the highest honor a knight could achieve, and Jaime himself was eager to accept, but it meant that Jaime had to forsake all claims as Tywin's heir to Casterly Rock (leaving his stunted and hated younger son Tyrion as the new heir). Privately, Aerys had truly agreed to promote Jaime to the Kingsguard to keep him around the royal court at all times, essentially as an unwitting hostage in case Tywin ever decided to turn on him. Outraged by the continual insults he endured from Aerys, Tywin resigned as Hand of the King on some thin pretext; the Hands that followed were a succession of Aerys's cronies, who he later turned on for various failures, exiling or executing them depending on his whims.
After he burned several prominent lords alive and sanctioned his son's kidnap of Lyanna Stark, half of the realm rose in revolt against Aerys in Robert's Rebellion. Many who fought on the Targaryen side in the war weren't even fighting for the insane Aerys so much as for his promising son, Crown Prince Rhaegar. Indeed, one of the main reasons so many put up with Aerys's insanity for as long as they did was because they hoped they could simply wait out the few remaining years in Aerys's reign until Rhaegar took the throne, instead of having to face the serious moral dilemma of breaking their oaths against the currently ruling king. Robert Baratheon's victory over Rhaegar at the Battle of the Trident was therefore a double-blow to the Targaryen side: not only had the main royal army been defeated and scattered, but with Rhaegar dead, lords who had been on the fence decided to openly side with the rebels rather than fight for Aerys. Chief among these was Tywin Lannister himself, who had stayed out of the war until that point, who marched with an army composing of 10,000 strong to the gates of King's Landing, and once let inside, promptly began to sack the capital city.
Before Rhaegar went to the Trident, Jaime begged him to come along, and to leave Darry or Selmy to guard the king. Rhaegar refused, explaining "My royal sire fears your father more than he does our cousin Robert. He wants you close, so Lord Tywin cannot harm him. I dare not take that crutch away from him at such an hour." Jaime did not like to be referred to as "a crutch", but obeyed. Many years later, recalling Rhaegar's words, the bitter irony does not escape from Jaime: "Aerys thought no harm could come to him if he kept me near. Isn’t that amusing?."
Aerys's manner of death is slightly different from book to series. In the TV series, it is mentioned several times that Jaime stabbed him in the back, whereas in the book he slit Aerys's throat at the foot of the Iron Throne. It is never mentioned that Aerys ever said the words "Burn them all." However, the Season 3 episode "Kissed by Fire" brought Aerys's death closer in line to the books, when Jaime recounts to Brienne of Tarth that he stabbed Aerys in the back when he tried to run, and then Jaime proceeded to slit his throat to make sure he was dead.
Another change is that Eddard Stark was not the first to find that Jaime killed Aerys: before Jaime could leave and let some braggart take the credit/blame, Ser Elys Westerling and Lord Roland Crakehall entered and saw him standing over Aerys's body. Crakehall was not surprised, figuring (incorrectly) that Jaime killed the king so the Lannisters could seize the throne. He asked Jaime, "Shall I proclaim a new king as well?" Jaime knew what he meant: either Tywin, or Robert Baratheon, or one of the surviving Targaryens. He considered for a moment to name either the boy Viserys or baby Aegon. But when he glanced down again at Aerys's body, he thought "his blood is in both of them." "Proclaim who you bloody well like" he told Crakehall. Then he climbed the Iron Throne and seated himself with his sword across his knees, to see who would come to claim the kingdom. As it happened, it had been Eddard Stark.
Even though the show says that Aerys II was the sixteenth King on the Iron Throne and the son of King Aegon V, in the books, Aerys was actually the seventeenth King, being the son of King Jaehaerys II and the grandson of King Aegon V. They omitted Jaehaerys II ruled for three years before Aerys succeeded the throne. The reason for the omission was possibly to make the connection of Maester Aemon to the rest of the family members easier to understand. In the books, Maester Aemon, formerly named Aemon Targaryen, was actually the grand-Uncle of Aerys, the great-grand uncle of Rhaegar, Viserys and Daenerys; and the great-great-grand uncle of Jon and his half-siblings, Rhaenys and Aegon.
Unlike in the show, Daenerys is never told the whole ugly truth about her father: what Ser Barristan Selmy tells her in the novels is a very "sugarcoated" version, sticking to positive facts, belittling greatly the negative facts, and entirely omitting the countless atrocities the Mad King committed (mainly the repeated brutal raping of the queen, the murder of every member of House Darklyn and House Hollard after the Defiance of Duskendale and the execution of Rickard and Brandon Stark). The worst thing Selmy ever tells Daenerys about her father is that he lusted after Tywin's wife and acted indecently at her bedding.
Aerys's character might have been inspired by two notorious Roman emperors, Caligula and Nero: both were initially benevolent rulers, but eventually became homicidal psychopathic tyrants; Nero set the capital city Rome on fire; Caligula was killed by his own bodyguards, the Praetorian Guard.
Jeyne Poole is a friend of Sansa Stark and daughter of Vayon Poole, the Steward of Winterfell.
Jeyne is the daughter of a minor house living at Winterfell. Her father Vayon Poole is the Steward of Winterfell, managing the castle's household. She has four sisters. She is Sansa's best friend.
Jeyne practices needlework with Sansa, Arya and another girl under the tutelage of Septa Mordane. She attends a feast at Winterfell to celebrate a visit by King Robert Baratheon and sits next to Sansa. Jeyne is visibly amused when Arya flicks a piece of food that hits Sansa in the face, but helps upset Sansa to clean her face while Robb escorts Arya to bed.
In King's Landing, Sansa expresses fear that she will not be able to give Joffrey sons, only daughters like Jeyne's mother did, but Mordane doesn't think this likely.
Jeyne's father is killed by Lannister men-at-arms in the Red Keep during the purge of the Stark household, following the arrest of Eddard Stark for treason.
The fate of Jeyne is unknown, she wasn't seen after the feast at Winterfell and there was no mentioning if she stayed there or accompanied her father to King's Landing.
Jeyne is not identified in the script for the first episode, in which she only appears briefly and has no dialogue. She is played by an uncredited extra in this scene. Producers David Benioff and D.B. Weiss identify the girl sitting next to Sansa during the feast as Jeyne Poole in their audio commentary track on the Season 1 DVD and Blu-Ray set.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Jeyne's background is the same as in the show, but she plays a considerably more prominent role.
There is no mentioning in the books that Jeyne has any siblings (according to the TV series, she has four sisters); it is never explicitly said in the books, though, that she is an only child. She is described as very pretty, with brown eyes and dark hair.
Jeyne shares Sansa's love for lemon cakes.
She attends the Tourney of the Hand with Sansa, and while Sansa mentions her attraction to Ser Loras Tyrell, Jeyne has a crush on Ser Beric Dondarrion.
Following the arrest of Eddard Stark and the purge of the Stark household, Jeyne is temporarily detained alongside Sansa, and cries nonstop; Sansa carelessly reveals that to Cersei. Cersei is displeased to hear that, and asks the council members what to do with Jeyne; Littlefinger takes her to an undisclosed location. Sansa is initially relieved that she won't have to hear Jeyne's weeping, but later misses her. In a later novel it is revealed Jeyne was taken against her will to one of his brothels, where she was viciously molested and beaten.
In A Storm of Swords, after the Red Wedding Littlefinger comes up with the idea to introduce Jeyne as Arya (who is believed to be dead) and marry her to Ramsay; Tywin accepts it. Jeyne hears terrible stories about Ramsay's cruelty, but has no choice but to comply.
Jaime sees Jeyne shortly before she is sent to the Boltons, and recognizes she is not Arya. Fearing that Brienne will risk her life in vain to save the girl due to her vow to Catelyn, Jaime reveals to her the girl is an impostor. Thus, unlike in the TV show, Brienne is not involved at all in Jeyne's plotline (she does not meet the real Arya or Sansa either). Brienne is surprised Jaime would admit this, but he states Roose Bolton knows and does not care, as the girl suits his purpose; who is going to say that she isn't Arya Stark? Everyone the girl was close to is dead except for her sister, who has disappeared (Jaime does not mention Jon, who surely can identify the impostor).
At the Inn at the Crossroads, the Hound and Arya encounter Polliver and the Tickler. Polliver, unaware of Arya's identity, tells them that Sansa's sister was found, and she will soon be wed to Ramsay. Arya does not understand what Polliver is talking about, since Sansa has no other sister except her.
In A Dance with Dragons, Jeyne is sent to Winterfell to marry Ramsay, though Theon Greyjoy, who is now Ramsay's prisoner "Reek", immediately recognizes her as Sansa's friend, having known her since childhood. Though the Boltons are aware of the deception, Jeyne manages to convince the other Northern Lords she is Arya, and Theon advises her not to break character, since if the Northern Lords realize she is an impostor, she will likely be killed by the Boltons, as she will no longer be of any use to them.
Jeyne is repeatedly abused and tortured by Ramsay, who forces her to perform sexual acts with Theon and possibly even his dogs as a form of humiliation; Ramsay's lack of discretion – and Jeyne's screams – draws the ire of the other Northern Lords. Jeyne begs Theon to help her escape, but he refuses, knowing full well of the consequences should they fail and be caught.
Meanwhile, at Castle Black, Jon hears of the wedding; unaware of the true identity of Ramsay's bride, he strongly suppresses his wish to rescue her, reminding himself that he has no sister due to his vows. Later, however, Melisandre persuades him to send Mance Rayder (whose death was faked by Melisandre) to infiltrate Winterfell and rescue "Arya" from Ramsay, unaware that the real Arya is in Braavos. Mance enters Winterfell as a bard, "Abel", along with six spearwives. He somehow makes Theon join the rescue mission. Theon cooperates very reluctantly; he does his best to dissuade "Abel" of the whole idea, telling in details what Ramsay does to his victims, but in vain.
A bloody brawl erupts between the Freys and the White Harbor men, as a result of the murder of "Little" Walder Frey (who was presumably killed by Mance and the spearwives). Taking advantage of the distraction, the spearwives and Theon get Jeyne out of her room. Just as they reach the wall, Jeyne screams and gives away their position. Mance and the spearwives are forced to stay behind. Theon grabs Jeyne and they jump off the wall, landing in the deep snow below. Jeyne breaks several ribs, as Theon lands on top of her, and the tip of her nose becomes black due to frostbite.
Theon and Jeyne run from Winterfell and are found by Mors "Crowfood" Umber, Greatjon's uncle, who brings them to the camp of Stannis. On Theon's advice, Jeyne maintains her façade as Arya. Mors, failing to notice that "Arya"'s eyes are of the wrong color, asks her several questions about Winterfell, and she barely passes (such as identifying Mikken as the castle's blacksmith). Stannis orders Ser Justin Massey, who is assigned to travel with Tycho Nestoris to Braavos and hire sellswords, to deliver her to Castle Black on his way to Eastwatch. Stannis decides that since "Lady Arya" should have a female companion, Alysane Mormont (Maege's second daughter) should go with her, too. Theon is well aware that the ruse will be up the second Jon lays eyes on Jeyne.
Ramsay apparently discovers the escape and sends a letter to Jon, furiously demanding his wife's return, which leads to Jon, still believing it is Arya, deciding to head out to reach Jeyne first and kill Ramsay himself to stop him pursuing her, though he is stabbed by his own men before he can leave Castle Black.
In the television series, following the feast at Winterfell, Jeyne has not been seen, and so her fate is unknown. Her role in A Dance with Dragons is filled by Sansa. David Benioff and Bryan Cogman claimed in an interview that this decision had been made as far back as the second season, as they believed such as powerful storyline in the North would have been entirely wasted on a character they had all-but excluded from the television series, and better suited for Sophie Turner, whose acting as Sansa was widely praised by the producers and well-received by critics and audiences. They also saw the dramatic potential in allowing an actual Stark to return to Winterfell and be reunited with Theon.
Knights jousting at a tilt, a popular event at a tournament.
A tournament (or tourney) is a great social event featuring competitive contests of martial skill, often thrown by a noble house to celebrate honor and chivalry or mark some event such as a wedding or nameday. They also allow a noble house to flaunt their wealth and status, as tournaments are enormously expensive. It can take a smaller house years to pay for one tourney.
There is no set format or length for a tournament, with modest ones lasting perhaps only an afternoon and consisting of a few events, while larger ones may sprawl across a week and feature many different contests and challenges.
A tourney may consist of one or more of the following events:
Tournaments also attract large numbers of side-events, including puppet shows, mummer performances and so on. Vast quantities of food and drink are consumed at a tourney, and blacksmiths can find plenty of work repairing damaged armor or buying the armor and weapons of defeated knights.
While tourneys are non-lethal and some safety precautions are taken, accidental deaths or injuries at a tournament are not unusual.
King Viserys I Targaryen held a great tournament to celebrate the birth of his new heir. The tournament was held in King's Landing with a great attendance which included Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen, Ser Otto Hightower and his daughter Alicent, Lord Corlys Velaryon and his wife Princess Rhaenys Targaryen with their children Laenor and Laena, and several members of the Small Council such as Lord Lyman Beesbury and Lord Lyonel Strong. Participants included Ser Criston Cole, Ser Gwayne Hightower, Lord Boremund Baratheon, and Prince Daemon Targaryen.
Before Robert's Rebellion in the Year of the False Spring, Old Lord Whent held a great tourney at Harrenhal with a great attendance including the Mad King Aerys II Targaryen, Eddard Stark, Robert Baratheon and Lyanna Stark. Lyanna was already betrothed to Robert at that time. Arthur Dayne rode and was only defeated by Rhaegar Targaryen. The last two riders were Rhaegar and Barristan Selmy. When Rhaegar won, everyone cheered for their prince with the girls laughing when he took off his helmet and saw his silver hair. All the smiles died when Rhaegar rode right past his wife, Elia Martell, and lay a crown of winter roses as blue as frost on Lyanna's lap.
A tournament was held at Lannisport after the Greyjoy Rebellion, to celebrate the Crown's victory over the ironborn. Jorah Mormont was the victor, even defeating Jaime Lannister.
A tourney was held during the celebration of Ser Willem Frey's wedding. Tyrion Lannister got Jaime Lannister's squire Bryan so drunk that he vomits on his horse and their distant cousin, Alton Lannister, volunteers to act in Bryan's place despite never having squired before and Alton's father apprehensions. Jaime thought Alton had a talent for squiring. Jaime unseated Balon Swann. A Riverlands traveller also watched Jaime fight.
Ser Loras Tyrell rides at full tilt in the joust at the Tourney of the Hand.
King Robert Baratheon declared that a tournament be held to celebrate his appointment of Eddard Stark as Hand of the King. Ser Hugh of the Vale dies during his joust against Ser Gregor Clegane when a splintered lance is driven through his throat. Ser Loras Tyrell won the final joust against Ser Gregor Clegane by riding a mare in heat distracting Gregor's stallion. However, this prompted Gregor to fly into a rage, decapitating his own horse. Gregor attacks Loras, but Gregor's younger brother Sandor Clegane intervened and fought off Gregor to protect Loras until they heeded King Robert's shouted demand to stop this folly. In gratitude, Loras proclaimed Sandor champion.
The Hound defeats his opponent at King Joffrey's tourney.
A tourney is held to celebrate King Joffrey's nameday. Unlike the Tourney of the Hand, this one is a smaller affair consisting only of duels, held on the eastern walls of the Red Keep, overlooking Blackwater Bay. Sandor Clegane defeats and kills an opponent in a duel. Lothor Brune, a freerider in the employ of Lord Petyr Baelish, is also set to duel Ser Dontos the Red of House Hollard but the confrontation is forfeit when Ser Dontos shows up drunk. King Joffrey orders his execution by being forcibly fed wine but decides to make him his new fool when Sansa Stark and the Hound convince him it is ill-luck to kill a man on one's nameday.
Tyrion Lannister interrupts the proceedings, having arrived in the capital after engaging the Stark army at the Battle of the Green Fork. Tyrion arrives wearing full armor, specifically to mock Joffrey from holding a leisurely tournament in the capital city, even as the War of the Five Kings is exploding across Westeros and over half of the realm refuses to acknowledge his rule.
King Renly Baratheon held a tournament at his army camp, to entertain his new allies and boost the morale of his army. It included no jousting but instead consisted purely melee combat on foot. Renly observed the melee with his new wife and queen, Margaery Tyrell, seated at his side, as the entire crowd cheered on the combatants. The final round was between Lady Brienne of Tarth and Ser Loras Tyrell. Both were highly skilled fighters, but in the end Brienne won by relying on her sheer size to simply tackle Loras - who had been so fixated on blocking the weapon in her hand that he forgot to consider that she might simply try to charge him.
Brienne fought with her helmet on, so the crowd would not mock her for being a woman and possibly deny her entry. King Renly then offered to reward Brienne with any gift that it was within his power to grant, to which Brienne requested that she might be named to Renly's Kingsguard so that she could continue to serve him. Despite a few murmurs from the crowd at the unprecedented decision to appoint a woman to the Kingsguard, Renly agreed and granted her request.
Noted tournaments in the history of Westeros include:
Tournaments are closely associated with knighthood, which is an Andal cultural institution, and are thus more common in southern Westeros than they are in the North or the Iron Islands. As in the TV series, dour Northerners such as Ned Stark see tournaments as frivolous, pointless mock fighting, when they should be more concerned with wildling raiding parties at their doorstep or the oncoming winter. That said, many Northerners do participate in southern jousts - Jory Cassel even took part in the Tourney of the Hand, though he ultimately lost to Lothor Brune. Jorah Mormont also partook in several major tournaments.
The tournament at Joffrey's nameday involved men mounted on horses, and did not take place on the city walls. Apparently the production team wanted to show off that, starting in Season 2, they began filming at the medieval walled city of Dubrovnik in Croatia - thus Sandor's opening fight on a castle wall with the ocean in the background could be filmed in real life, without the need for matte paintings (though a few of the larger towers behind Joffrey were added in post-production). Overall, Joffrey's nameday tournament highlighted just how little attention he was paying to the rebellions against him: at this point the Lannisters barely control the Westerlands, the Crownlands, and a strip of the southern Riverlands along the Gold Road connecting the two. Nonetheless, Joffrey expects them to come back into allegiance simply because he commands it, while waiting for his grandfather Tywin to deal with the problem. It turns out to be a very dull tournament, given that most soldiers have left the city to fight in the actual war which has begun.
As in the TV series, at the Tourney of the Hand Ser Loras Tyrell won the joust, but then awarded the victory to Sandor Clegane for saving his life from Gregor Clegane's rampage. The TV series did not mention that Anguy won the archery contest and Thoros of Myr won the melee contest. This is why they arrived in King's Landing, and were available when Ned Stark ordered Beric Dondarrion to lead out a group of able knights to bring Gregor Clegane to justice - soldiers who formed the original core of the Brotherhood Without Banners. Thus the connection might be lost on the TV audience that one of the reasons the Brotherhood is such a disproportionately capable fighting force is because so many of its initial members were elite fighters who came to the capital city to participate in the Tourney of the Hand. For example it might seem a bit contrived in the TV series that, as if by pure chance, the Brotherhood's lead archer Anguy just happens to be preternaturally skilled with a bow. The books actually do explain that he is a professional archer so skilled that he actively competes in tournaments, and indeed recently won first place at a royal-level archery tournament. Moreover, he doesn't just happen to be wandering in the Riverlands, but the rational reason was given that he was in the capital for a major tournament, before being sent out with Dondarrion.
The tournament was to celebrate Joffrey's thirteenth nameday in the books, but the TV series has been inconsistent about Joffrey's exact age. Most characters have been aged-up by two years for the TV series, but Tyrion makes an off-hand comment at one point in Season 3 that Joffrey is seventeen (to contrast with how Jaime was such a skilled swordsman at only seventeen that he was named to the Kingsguard).
Renly's tournament was actually held at Bitterbridge in the books, which is in the Reach. The TV series slightly condensed this plotline by moving Renly's mobile army camp to somewhere in the Stormlands, not too far from Storm's End. While the horses were removed in the TV version of Joffrey's thirteenth nameday tourney, even in the books there was no mounted combat at Renly's tournament. It consisted entirely of melee combat, and involved 116 knights. Brienne personally defeated at least ten named knights in single combat, the last of which was Ser Loras.
While Renly's tournament is a bit leisurely, it is not an outright frivolous action. Cersei mocks Renly for not immediately marching on the capital city, but Tyrion points out that Renly is doing exactly what he would in his place. Tyrion directly contrasts Renly's actions with Joffrey's. In Joffrey's case, his tournament is petulantly avoiding the outbreak of war, indeed ignoring it to pursue his own amusement, nor does his small tournament serve any purpose because most of the soldiers have already left the city anyway. In Renly's case, he is slowly advancing along the Roseroad, stopping at every keep to hold a feast or tournament bout, but this is a calculated tactic, meant as a recruitment tool to attract formidable knights from across the Reach and the Stormlands to his growing army.
Histories & Lore:"The Sack of King's Landing: House Targaryen""The Sack of King's Landing: House Baratheon""House Clegane""The Westerlands""House Martell""Robert's Rebellion: Oberyn Martell""Brotherhood Without Banners""Oldtown"
Ser Gregor Clegane was a knight of House Clegane in service to House Lannister, the older brother of Sandor Clegane, and a notoriously fearsome, extremely lethal, and much-feared warrior, with a tendency toward extreme and excessive violence. Due to his size, he is called "The Mountain That Rides" or more often, simply "The Mountain."
Ser Gregor Clegane was the head of House Clegane, a knightly house from the Westerlands, and the elder brother of Sandor Clegane. When Sandor and Gregor were children, Gregor held his brother's face in a fire for playing with one of his toys without permission, horrifically scarring him. Gregor was a landed knight rather than a full-fledged lord. Gregor was monstrously huge, he was the largest, strongest, and most feared man in Westeros. His monstrous strength and size were unmatched, and he was one of the most powerful and dangerous people in the Seven Kingdoms. He was feared throughout Westeros with a reputation for ferocity, brutality, and anger. He has committed unspeakable acts of violence, such as brutally torturing his victims to death, viciously raping women, and murdering children. He was a fiercely loyal retainer and servant of House Lannister, particularly to Lord Tywin.
At the request of Tywin Lannister, Prince Rhaegar Targaryen anoints Gregor as a knight.
Numerous servants have gone missing at the Clegane keep over the years, apparently killed by Gregor for minor slights in one of his infamous fits of rage, and their deaths then covered up. Gregor's own father and sister died under dubious circumstances as well, and Sandor thinks that Gregor may have killed them too. Their sister died when Sandor was too young to remember her well, and their father died years later in what was said to be a "hunting accident." At the request of Tywin, Rhaegar Targaryen himself anointed Gregor as a knight, a great honor, even though Gregor was an infamously dishonorable man.
Gregor about to murder Rhaegar's family.
During Robert's Rebellion, one year after Prince Rhaegar knighted him, Gregor participated in the Sack of King's Landing. After entering the Red Keep, he brutally killed Rhaegar's two children by Elia Martell: their daughter Rhaenys and baby Aegon. He killed baby Aegon by bashing his head against the wall, and then while still covered in the gore from her children, proceeded to viciously torture and rape Elia. After torturing and raping her for several hours, he then horrifically killed her. It is rumored that he killed her by cutting her in half with a single swing of his massive sword, although he later claimed to have "smashed her head in with his bare hands."
Despite pleas by Ned Stark, neither Gregor nor Tywin were punished by King Robert for the murders of the royal family, leading to a rift in Ned and Robert's friendship.
Gregor participates in the Hand's tourney.
Ser Gregor takes part in the tournament to celebrate Eddard Stark's appointment as Hand of the King. He kills Ser Hugh of the Vale in a joust, horrifying the crowd. Littlefinger tells Sansa that Gregor burned his brother Sandor's face over a naked flame when they were boys because Sandor borrowed one of his toys without asking. He tells her that few people know the story and not to let Sandor know that she does.
Gregor stands defiantly after Robert ends his showdown with Sandor.
When Gregor faces Ser Loras Tyrell, he loses the joust; Loras chose to ride a mare in heat to distract Gregor's stallion. Flying into a rage, Gregor demands his sword, then ruthlessly decapitates his erstwhile mount before the entire horrified crowd. Ignoring his surroundings, he proceeds to knock the surprised Loras off his horse and is on the verge of dishonorably killing him, when his brother Sandor intervenes, fighting him off to protect Loras. The two brothers violently trade swings with their swords, and Gregor only stops when King Robert himself shouts to stop the fight, at which time the enraged Gregor reluctantly relents, throws his sword down in disgust, and leaves.
Catelyn takes Tyrion into custody, on suspicion of the attempted assassination of her son Bran. In response, Gregor is dispatched to raid the Riverlands, her homeland. Refugees from the Riverlands attend court in King's Landing and report that a huge knight who could take the head of a horse off in one blow led the attack and had sacked their villages. Littlefinger asks Eddard: "Remind you of someone?" Eddard sends Beric Dondarrion with a hundred men to bring Gregor to justice. Eddard declares him a false knight and strips him of all ranks and titles, lands and holdings, and sentences him to death. The ruling was made null by Eddard's arrest for treason and subsequent beheading.
The host led by Beric clashes against Gregor at the Mummer's Ford. Gregor is victorious, and Beric is reported dead.
However, when Robb Stark's victory against Jaime necessitates Tywin's withdrawal of his forces to Harrenhal, he orders Gregor to take five hundred men and "set the Riverlands on fire" from the Gods Eye to the Red Fork.
Gregor commands the torture at Harrenhal.
Gregor continues to raid the villages of the Riverlands from the Lannister army's base at Harrenhal. His men torture the prisoners they take for information about the Brotherhood and hidden valuables. He selects the prisoners for torture personally. Ser Amory Lorch adds a group of captured Night's Watch recruits to the captives. Tywin arrives during the torture and asks Gregor what is going on. Gregor says that they were not expecting Tywin for another day. Tywin asks why the prisoners are not in their cells. Gregor says that their cells are overflowing. One of Lorch's men interjects that the prisoners will not be there long.
Tywin asks if they are so well manned that they can afford to discard able and skilled prisoners. He asks a prisoner if he has a trade and learns that he is a smith. Tywin orders the prisoners put to work, sparing the young man.
When the ironborn under the command of Theon Greyjoy attack Torrhen’s Square to lure the remaining Stark forces away from Winterfell, Ser Rodrik Cassel assumes that it could be a raiding party led by the Mountain or sellswords paid by Tywin.
Gregor with Tywin Lannister at Harrenhal.
Following the assassination of Ser Amory just outside Tywin's chamber, Gregor is tasked with finding the culprit. Tywin fears that he was the intended target and has Ser Gregor hang over 30 of their own men. Gregor suggests an infiltrator from the Brotherhood Without Banners was responsible and Tywin dispatches him to pressure the smallfolk of the Riverlands into giving up the members of the Brotherhood. Tywin marches back to the Westerlands and leaves Gregor to serve as castellan at Harrenhal.
Robb and his army get to Harrenhal, finding that Gregor has left the castle with his men. To their horror, they discover that Gregor has executed the remaining 200 Northmen and Rivermen prisoners at Harrenhal, leaving their bodies to rot.
Gregor is later expelled from Stone Mill by a force led by Robb's uncle, Edmure Tully, forcing him to flee south to Casterly Rock. However, Robb chides his uncle for his actions, explaining that he wanted to draw the Mountain into the west where they could kill him.
Oberyn Martell discusses with Tyrion how the last time he was in King's Landing, it was for the wedding of his sister Elia to Rhaegar. He also states that during the Sack of King's Landing, his sister was raped and murdered by Gregor. Oberyn believes that Tyrion's father, Tywin, was the one to give the order to the Mountain. He told Tyrion that he intended to avenge her.
Polliver tells Gregor's brother Sandor when meeting in a tavern further north, that while loyal to the Mountain and the Lannisters, Polliver wasn't in agreement with Gregor's torturous methods because they were repetitive and boring.
Clegane is called upon to fight by Cersei Lannister.
When Tyrion demands a trial by combat, Gregor is quickly appointed the Crown's champion by Queen Cersei Lannister in order to deter anyone from fighting for Tyrion. Gregor is seen slaughtering prisoners and Cersei compliments him on his form, agreeing that it doesn't matter who faces him. Tyrion first asks his brother Jaime to fight for him, but he declines, saying that he simply cannot fight like he used to with the loss of his sword hand. Tyrion then asks his friend Bronn to be his champion, but he too refuses, arguing that the Mountain is an incredibly dangerous fighter, one that would cost him his life if he makes a single mistake. Finally, Prince Oberyn Martell approaches Tyrion and volunteers to be his champion, as he wants to avenge his sister.
The Mountain battles Oberyn to the death.
Gregor fights Oberyn at Tyrion's trial by combat, clad in a heavy plated armor and wielding a large broad sword in one hand. Despite his immense size and strength, Gregor is no match for Oberyn's swift and agile fighting style. Oberyn manages to knock Gregor's helmet off early into the duel and proceeds ​to slowly cut him down, all the while taunting him and demanding he admit to the rape and murder of Elia Martell and her children, chanting ever more loudly "you raped her; you murdered her; you killed her children."
Oberyn gains the upper hand over Gregor.
Oberyn eventually severs ​Clegane's hamstring, bringing the giant to his knees. Oberyn presses his advantage by jumping and thrusting his spear into Gregor's chest, severely injuring the gigantic man and seemingly sealing his defeat. Thinking his opponent is fully incapacitated, Oberyn removes his spear from Gregor's chest and circles him, refusing to land a killing blow until Gregor admits that he killed Elia and reveals who orchestrated it, directing his gaze accusingly at Tywin. However, in his hubris, Oberyn is unexpectedly caught off guard when Gregor trips and pulls him to the ground, grasping him around the neck and slamming his fist squarely into his face, instantly knocking out several of his teeth.
The Mountain crushes Oberyn's skull with his bare hands.
Berserk with fury at nearly being killed by his opponent, Gregor pins Oberyn to the ground and proceeds to gouge out his eyeballs, making him scream in agony, as he roars for all to hear: "Elia Martell! I killed her children! Then I raped her! Then I smashed her head... in like this!." He then crushes Oberyn's skull, making his paramour Ellaria Sand scream in horror. Gregor collapses beside his fallen opponent from the wounds he sustained as Tywin announces that, according to the rules of trial by combat, Oberyn's death has officially sealed the fate of Tyrion and sentences him to death.
Gregor's injuries are examined.
Despite his exceedingly gruesome death, Oberyn nonetheless manages to get some posthumous revenge. Before the duel, Oberyn had his spears coated with manticore venom, one of the deadliest poisons in the known world. Gregor's wounds start putrefying, emitting an overpowering stench. As a final torture, the venom forces him to remain conscious during the whole ordeal, even as his flesh dies and peels off his body. Pycelle regretfully tells Cersei that Gregor is beyond any hope of healing.
Qyburn decides to experiment on Gregor.
Qyburn, however, an expelled former maester with extensive medical knowledge gained from "repugnant" and "unnatural" experimentation on living people, suggests that he may be able to save him. Cersei dismisses Pycelle and gives Qyburn permission to do anything he can to save Ser Gregor (likely out of gratitude for sealing Tyrion's fate and her 'revenge' on him for the death of Joffrey), though Qyburn says that his unorthodox methods may "change" him. She nervously asks if he means the process will weaken Gregor, but Qyburn knowingly assures her it will not.
A moribund Gregor Clegane is being experimented on by Qyburn at his laboratory in the dungeons below the Red Keep. Cersei visits Qyburn and asks him about the state of his work, while glancing at Gregor's covered body, and Qyburn assures her it is going very well, though there is still a way to go. Then, Gregor suddenly spasms, and Qyburn gently shushes him and tells him to go easy. During Cersei's imprisonment by the Faith, Qyburn reminds her that "the work continues."
A transformed Ser Gregor carries Cersei into the Red Keep.
After Cersei's walk of atonement, she returns to the Keep where Qyburn covers her up and is pleased to introduce the "newest member" of the Kingsguard. The Mountain stands as tall as ever, fully covered in Kingsguard plate armor. Only his reddened eyes, surrounded by pale bluish flesh, are visible through his helmet. With Cersei's feet injured and bleeding, he is instructed to carry her. As he does so, Qyburn informs Cersei that Clegane has taken a holy vow of silence to last until all of Tommen's enemies are dead and the evil has been driven from the realm.
Gregor begins to persecute anyone who goes against Cersei.
Gregor is present standing guard over Cersei when Jaime returns from Dorne with Myrcella's body. Later, Gregor continues to serve Cersei without question. He finds a man who boasts of having flashed his penis at Cersei during her walk and bashes his head against a wall, killing him.
Cersei reveals her plan to use Gregor.
Back at the Red Keep, he accompanies Cersei when she attempts to attend Myrcella's funeral, only to be stopped by a group of Lannister soldiers, who have arrived to prevent her from leaving on King Tommen's orders. Although Gregor intimidates the captain with his size, Cersei acquiesces, and he escorts her back to her room.
Gregor follows Cersei and Jaime into Qyburn's laboratory, where the former Maester tries to win the service of the little birds by offering them candied plums from Dorne; the children are extremely frightened by the towering knight and quickly flee the room. Jaime asks what Qyburn has done to Gregor, to which the latter replies with "a number of things." Jaime wonders whether Gregor is able to understand what they are saying, then insults his intelligence by questioning whether he ever understood complete sentences at all, to which the huge knight menacingly turns his head towards Jaime. Qyburn assures that Gregor understands well enough. Jaime suggested sending Ser Gregor to the High Septon to crush him and his Faith Militants. Cersei disagrees, saying they can't let Ser Gregor face them all and that he only needs to face one, implying the coming trial by combat.
Gregor acts as Cersei's protector when she intervenes the Small Council.
At the Small Council, Pycelle expresses his disgusts about Qyburn's treatment of Ser Gregor, calling him an abomination. He attempts to suggest that it would be in everyone's best interest to have the "beast" destroyed, but he was cut short when he becomes aware of the presence of Cersei, Jaime and Gregor himself. Frightened by the huge man, Pycelle cannot keep himself from passing gas. Cersei suggests the Small Council gets on with urgent matters, as they cannot make them leave. Kevan replies that Cersei and Jaime cannot make them stay either, unless they set Gregor to kill them. As everyone except Cersei and Jaime leave, Pycelle cowers past Ser Gregor, who coldly looks back.
Gregor guards Cersei during her conversation with Olenna.
After Cersei gets word of Olenna Tyrell's intention to return to Highgarden, she confronts her. Ser Gregor Clegane follows in the Queen Mother's wake and silently stands guard behind her. When Lancel and several other members of the Faith Militant enter the Red Keep, Cersei, Qyburn, and Ser Gregor arrive to confront them. Lancel tells Cersei that the High Septon wishes to speak with her, but Cersei refuses, and when Lancel does not leave at her command, Gregor stands in his way as the Faith attempt to forcibly take Cersei.
Ser Gregor easily kills a member of the Faith Militant.
He remains unmoved when Lancel orders him to stand down. One of the Sparrows attacked Gregor, and although his weapon's spikes pierce Gregor's plate, Gregor does not say a word or appear to even acknowledge any injury. When the Sparrow tries to attack again, Gregor grabs him by the throat, lifting him into the air and throwing him to the ground. While Lancel and the other Sparrows look on in horror, the towering knight kneels beside him and tears his head off. Lancel and the others thereby stand down.
Gregor stands by Cersei as her plan to use him in a trial by combat crumbles.
Ser Gregor accompanies Cersei and Qyburn to the Great Hall, where Tommen is about to make a royal announcement. As Cersei attempts to stand besides her son, she is barred by Kevan Lannister, who tells her place is on the gallery with the other ladies of the court. Cersei reluctantly takes her place there with Gregor following her, causing the women to hastily make place. Tommen announces that Cersei and Loras will stand trial before seven septons and that trial by combat is forbidden in the Seven Kingdoms, thereby nullifying Cersei's plans on having the Mountain fight as her champion again.
On the day of her and Loras Tyrell's trial, Cersei sends Gregor to Tommen's chambers, to prevent him from going to the Great Sept of Baelor to protect him from its destruction. Tommen tries to get past but Gregor easily holds him back. Tommen later commits suicide after hearing of Margaery Tyrell's death in the destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor.
Ser Gregor prepares to torture Septa Unella.
Gregor is summoned by Cersei to the Red Keep dungeons after the explosion, being introduced to Cersei's newest prisoner, Septa Unella. After removing his helmet, revealing his withered and mangled face, Gregor is left alone with Unella, who screams in terror as the Mountain looms over her, ready to carry out his orders to torture the Septa for imprisoning and humiliating Cersei. Later, when Cersei is crowned as queen, he is seen looming beside the Iron Throne, gazing into the crowd.
Gregor defends Cersei.
Gregor is present when Cersei holds court, and moves to protect his queen when Euron Greyjoy steps too close to the throne.
He is also present when Cersei holds court to the nobility of the Reach.
Gregor is also present when Cersei hosts a grand reception with Lord Euron and his prisoners Yara Greyjoy, Ellaria, and Tyene Sand. He was later present in the dungeons with Qyburn when Cersei confronts her prisoners Ellaria and Tyene over the murder of her daughter. While Cersei had toyed with ordering Gregor to smash their heads like he did with Oberyn, she instead settles for poisoning Tyene with the long farewell and forcing Ellaria to watch her daughter's final death throes.
Cersei and her followers arrive at the Dragonpit.
When Daenerys and her retainers are set to arrive in King's Landing to negotiate an armistice with Cersei and her royal army, Cersei has Clegane stand in as her personal bodyguard. Even before they set out to the Dragonpit, where the meeting is stated to be held, she makes preparations with Qyburn, Jaime and Clegane. She orders Ser Gregor to first kill Daenerys, then Tyrion, then Jon, and the rest of them in any order if the meeting goes wrong. Together with Clegane, Cersei then sets out to meet their guests. When their procession arrives in the Dragonpit, Sandor Clegane—who is with the group of Daenerys—is shocked to see the state of his hated brother.
Gregor is confronted by his brother.
Once Gregor has taken his place behind Cersei, Sandor approaches him. Sandor hatefully states that Gregor was now uglier than Sandor and that this was not how it would end for Gregor. Sandor continues, claiming Gregor knew that Sandor will be coming for him, before returning to his group. Accordingly, Gregor steps back behind Cersei, only to emerge once more when Daenerys arrives on the dragon Drogon.
When Euron Greyjoy takes too many liberties during the parley, threatening the fragile peace, Cersei orders him to sit down or leave. Clegane threateningly makes a step forward to further stress her point. During the parley, Daenerys's group releases a wight to prove the threat the undead pose. Clegane was ready to shield Cersei from the wight, but Sandor yanks it back with a chain. When Jon Snow later reveals to Cersei that he already swore allegiance to Daenerys, Cersei calls off the parley and returns to the Red Keep with her retainers, Clegane included. To convince her to accept the armistice, Tyrion follows her and is escorted to her chambers by Clegane, who visibly makes Tyrion uneasy. Clegane escorts Tyrion into the room and remains in the back while Cersei and Tyrion argue and discuss.
He is ready to execute Tyrion when the dwarf demands he do so, but Cersei never gives the order. Instead, Tyrion actually manages to convince Cersei to come to the Dragonpit again and, accompanied by Clegane and the others, Cersei turns up once more to announce that she will send her armies north to assist in fighting the dead. This, however, is a lie and Cersei has no intention of doing so.
Jaime realizes that his life is threatened by Clegane.
The group returns to the Red Keep. When Jaime made it clear to Cersei that he would join the fight against the army of the dead with or without her, Clegane suddenly prevents him from leaving the room. Cersei calls Jaime a traitor for disobeying her commands and stating that no one walks away from her. When Cersei nods, Clegane draws his sword, waiting for Cersei to give the order to execute Jaime. However, Jaime called Cersei out on her bluff and walks right past Clegane, who does not intervene, and out of the room.
Gregor carries out his duty in Missandei's execution.
Gregor is present when Euron and Captain Harry Strickland announce the arrival of the Golden Company to Cersei. Afterwards, Euron makes another move on Cersei, but Clegane stops him from proceeding with a menacing stare. Nevertheless, when the queen finally allows Euron to have his way with her, Clegane does not intervene. During the parley outside the gates of King's Landing, Gregor carries out Cersei's order of executing Missandei.
Gregor kills Qyburn.
During the Battle of King's Landing, Gregor stays by Cersei's side to guard her. After Qyburn convinces her to flee from the Red Keep, he protects them both from the debris falling as a result of the Red Keep crumbling due to Drogon's attack. They are however confronted by Sandor who slays all the surviving Kingsguard except Gregor who remains at Cersei's side. Gregor wishes to fight Sandor but Cersei and Qyburn order him to guard her. In anger, he bashes in Qyburn's skull while Cersei flees past both of the brothers.
Sandor confronts Gregor.
In the ensuing duel, Sandor proves himself better at sword fighting than Gregor and stabs him, but he doesn't die due to his reanimation. Gregor proceeds to brutally thrash and choke Sandor who stabs him many times in vain. While trying to crush Sandor’s skull, Gregor is stabbed through his left eye, though even this fails to kill him and Gregor begins to pull the blade out. Seeing this Sandor tackles Gregor into a crumbling wall, leading to the both of them falling from the Red Keep tower to their deaths in the burning chasm below.
Gregor is well-known for his brutal and savage nature, remorselessly killing unarmed opponents half his size or leading the torture of helpless villagers. Often referred to as "Tywin Lannister's mad dog", Gregor has an insatiable bloodlust that he releases through acts of extreme violence. He is quick to anger and never shows any fear of acting on it, since no one dares stop him. One of the only people he has ever shown any loyalty or respect toward are Tywin and Robert.
Gregor's short fuse and utter lack of a conscience often showed his lack of honor. In addition, he does not appear to be very bright, relying solely on his physical instincts to get the job done without thinking of the long-term consequences.
As a warrior, Gregor is widely feared for his terrifying and gigantic size and superhuman strength. He is a giant of a man, standing well over seven feet in height (eight feet in the novels) and weighing over 500 pounds. In combat, his immense strength and beastly size gives him a huge advantage over almost any opponent, which allows him to defeat men who have far more skill. His weapon of choice is an enormous great sword that most men would never be able to swing with even two hands, but which Gregor is strong enough to wield one-handed. Gregor also wears armor larger and thicker than normal knights would be able to wear, providing him almost impenetrable defense against his opponents.
Following his treatment by Qyburn, the Mountain is no longer capable of speech, but the process has made him even stronger than he once was.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Gregor Clegane is a savage brute of a man, freakishly tall at nearly 8 feet in height, and well over 30 stone in weight (420 lbs./190 kg), most of it muscle. Gregor is so strong that he can easily wield with one hand greatswords which are meant to be wielded with two hands, allowing him to carry a shield as well. He is so strong that he has been known to cleave men in two with a single blow of his sword.
Known as "the Mountain That Rides", Gregor is one of Tywin Lannister's chief enforcers. Gregor's knighthood is regarded as a hypocritical mockery of justice by many, as he is a thoroughly dishonorable and undisciplined butcher. While Gregor is so strong that he can easily fight the strongest knights in Westeros, his greatest enthusiasm in wartime is for burning out the homes of peasants who cannot possibly fight back, and torturing their women and children to death. Indeed, Gregor's immense size isn't really his main attribute to Tywin, so much as his utter enthusiasm for committing atrocities. With a "might makes right" mentality, Gregor feels that his immense bulk and strength gives him impunity to behave as he does, as few would dare to challenge him. While Gregor is incredibly dangerous in combat, he relies more on sheer strength than on speed or skill. Gregor has gone through two wives, who died from the extremely rough treatment they received from him, though there are rumors that he killed them on purpose. His father and younger sister also died on suspicious circumstances. Sandor Clegane left when Gregor succeeded their father and never returned.
Gregor has a nearly uncontrollable temper, and is capable of very brutal violence for the slightest provocation. According to Sandor, he once killed one of his men for snoring. When he was in Harrenhal, a servant girl named Pia spoke when he wanted silence, so he smashed her face in with his mailed fist, breaking her nose and many of her teeth.
Gregor's men-at-arms are known as "The Mountain's men." His cruelty and brutality are clearly mirrored in them. The best thing that can be said about them is that they are less vile and violent than the Brave Companions, Vargo Hoat's sellsword company. Those who are mentioned specifically in the books are:
When Sandor escorts Sansa back to the Red Keep after the tournament feast, at Joffrey's command, he tells her the story of how his face was burned (not Littlefinger as happens in the TV series): a wood carver gave toys to both of the Clegane children in order to gain their father's patronage. Sandor wanted the articulated jointed knight that Gregor got, so he took it. Gregor was ten and already big enough to be training so he didn't even care about the toy, but when he found six year old Sandor playing with it - without warning he pushed Sandor's head into a brazier and held him there. It took three men to get Sandor away from him, and their father told people that Sandor's bed linens had caught fire. It was later when Gregor was anointed a knight that Sandor Clegane lost all respect for the institution of knighthood, and has steadfastly refused to be knighted himself.
Sandor also tells Sansa that the death of Hugh of the Vale was not a tournament accident. Ser Hugh had obviously put on the armor himself and had not set the neck protector correctly. He says Gregor saw that, and thus could have sent the blow elsewhere, and that the lance didn't just accidentally deflect upward, as Gregor puts his lance exactly where he intends it to go every time. He meant to kill Ser Hugh, though it isn't clear if this was an assassination to silence Hugh, or just Gregor enjoying the carnage (the revelation about Jon Arryn's death supports the latter option).
In the second novel, Tyrion offers Doran Martell, among other things, Ser Gregor. Tywin disapproves, claiming that Gregor has his uses, and every lord has need of a beast from time to time. Tyrion answers that "the woods are full of beasts", and Tywin says he'll think it over. Later, Tywin decides against the idea, stating that "Ser Gregor has served us well. No other knight in the realm inspires such terror in our enemies"; in order to appease the Martells, he comes up with the idea to put the entire blame on Amory Lorch (who is, quite conveniently, dead). As things turn to be, Tywin's new version of the death of Elia and her children does not stop Oberyn from fighting Gregor.
Gregor encounters and kills Beric Dondarrion twice (these are the first and the fourth of Beric's seven deaths): he impales Beric on a lance during the Battle at the Mummer's Ford, and on later encounter (whose details are not specified) he stabs Beric in the eye with a dirk. Beric is resurrected on both occasions.
While treating Gregor Clegane, Qyburn theorizes that Oberyn had adulterated the manticore venom on his spear with sorcery; thickening it in order to slow its progress through the veins towards the heart, dragging out Gregor's agony. It is also not at Cersei's orders but Tywin's that Gregor is treated, though this is only to get him enough back to health so Ilyn Payne could execute him. After Gregor's public confession of his part in the murders of Elia Martell and her children, Tywin (who had always dismissed such talk as malicious rumors) intended to publicly execute Gregor in order to appease House Martell, rather than risk their outrage at Elia and Oberyn's deaths causing Doran Martell to support Stannis Baratheon (though Tywin was killed by Tyrion before this could happen).
After Loras is sent to resolve the siege of Dragonstone, Qyburn tells Cersei that in case Loras dies, she will need to find another worthy for the Kingsguard. He claims "I had another sort of champion in mind. What he lacks in gallantry he will give you tenfold in devotion. He will protect your son, kill your enemies, and keep your secrets, and no living man will be able to withstand him." Cersei is skeptical; she orders a gigantic suit of armor at Qyburn's request -despite the blacksmith's insistence no living man can move or fight under such weight- but warns him that if he plays her for a fool, he will pay dearly.
As a gesture of good will, Cersei assigns Ser Balon Swann to deliver the supposed skull of Ser Gregor to the Martells, and most of them accept that the Mountain has finally been punished for his crimes (though it is a little consolation to Ellaria, who deeply mourns Oberyn). Only Obara is skeptical, suspecting a deception. Nymeria tells her half-sister to lighten up, as Gregor was the only 8-foot tall man in all of Westeros, and Cersei would be exposed as a liar before the entire continent if it turned out he was somehow still alive. What Nymeria says makes perfect sense, except that Cersei is far from being rational and clever. Obara has no idea how much she is close to the truth.
Following Cersei's downfall, Qyburn visits her in prison and informs her new champion stands ready. Cersei laughs bitterly, since she can be defended only by a sworn brother of the Kingsguard, but Loras somehow clings to life despite his mortal wounds, thus she cannot make a use of her invincible champion. However, when she hears from Kevan about Ser Arys Oakheart's death, she sees a chance of survival: there is an empty place on the Kingsguard that must be filled. She begs her uncle to have Tommen appoint a man whom Qyburn knows his name.
Following Cersei's walk of penance, Qyburn introduces her to Ser Robert Strong, a man clad from head to toe in white armor (no part of him is visible) and matching Gregor's physique. According to Qyburn, Strong has taken a holy vow of silence until all of King Tommen's enemies are defeated. Many people, including Kevan and Pycelle, theorize that Robert Strong is actually Gregor, or maybe even a Frankenstein's monster assembled from the Mountain's body as well as other bodies. In the first novel (chapter 17), Bran Stark has a vision of a stone giant, apparently Ser Robert, and when his visor lifts, there is only darkness and black blood, leaving it ambiguous as to whether or not Strong even has a head.
In the television series, Cersei's new Kingsguard is not given a name, and what is seen of his face through his helmet matches that of Gregor, somewhat confirming that Gregor and Strong are the same man. In the sixth season of the series, he is still referred to as Gregor Clegane, and that the Robert Strong name having been dropped entirely.
While in the novels the murder of Rhaenys Targaryen is assigned to Ser Amory Lorch, another knight in the service of Tywin Lannister, the TV-series omitted this and Gregor is blamed for the death of Elia, Aegon and Rhaenys.
Hugh, called Ser Hugh of the Vale, was a freshly made knight.
Hugh served as Lord Jon Arryn's squire for four years before the latter's death. After Arryn's death, Hugh was knighted for his loyal service by King Robert Baratheon. When Lysa Arryn returned to the Eyrie with her son, Ser Hugh elected to remain in King's Landing in the King's service.
Eddard Stark sends Jory Cassel to quiz Ser Hugh about Jon Arryn's death. Ser Hugh refuses to talk to Jory since he isn't a knight.
Ser Hugh takes part in the tournament to celebrate Eddard's arrival. He is killed by a splintered lance during a joust with Gregor Clegane.
Hugh's body is prepared for burial.
Barristan Selmy stands the knight's vigil for Ser Hugh overnight. Eddard ponders how Hugh could afford arms and armor so soon after being knighted. While Selmy theorizes that maybe Lord Arryn left him some money, Ned suspects that Hugh was involved in Lord Arryn's death. Varys later agrees that this is the most likely explanation, and that the Lannisters ordered him killed to prevent him talking (Ser Gregor is in the Lannisters' service).
Lysa's revelation about Jon Arryn's death refutes Eddard and Varys's assumption.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Hugh is a reasonably effective warrior, but is newly-proud and slightly drunk on his achievement of becoming a knight.
Littlefinger tells Ned about Hugh and three other people, who belonged to Jon Arryn's household, and remained in King's Landing after his death. Ned assigns Jory to question all the four, and he does. The conversation between Jory and Hugh is about the same as in the show, but occurs off-screen, because they are not POV characters.
Jeyne Poole cries hysterically at Hugh's death, but Sansa just watches the scene with a strange fascination. She thinks she should cry too, but does not. She finds it sad that the young knight will be soon forgotten, and no songs will be sung for him.
Following Hugh's death, Barristan Selmy tells Ned that he apparently had a mother in the Vale. Ned orders that Hugh's armor will be sent to his mother.
The Hound tells Sansa that Hugh was a fool, and should have never participated the tourney, since he had no money, no squire, no one to help him with the armor; his gorget wasn't fastened properly, and Gregor noticed that. The Hound states that Hugh's death was not an accident, but does not explicitly say whether Gregor meant to silence Hugh, or it was simply due to his murderous nature.
When Pycelle is accused by Tyrion of Jon Arryn's death, he claims Hugh did it, and that Varys and Cersei will concur with Pycelle about Hugh's guilt.
Upon being knighted, Hugh's sigil is a blue field bordered in crescent moons.
In view of the revelation about Jon Arryn's death in A Storm of Swords, George R.R. Martin was asked who ordered Hugh's death - Cersei or Littlefinger. He answered ambiguously "It could very well have been either of the two, that's for you to decide. But, it could also just have been a Gregor thing. He's a murderous brute, and really needs no reason to kill someone".
Histories & Lore:"House Clegane""The Westerlands""The Kingsguard: Jaime Lannister"
Sandor Clegane, popularly known as the Hound, was the younger brother of Ser Gregor Clegane and the personal bodyguard of Prince Joffrey Baratheon. When Joffrey ascended the Iron Throne, Sandor was named into his Kingsguard (despite not being a knight), but deserted his post at the Battle of the Blackwater. After traveling as a fugitive with Arya Stark, having a close brush with death following an altercation with Brienne of Tarth, and the mass murder of a congregation he attempted to find peace with, he reluctantly joined the Brotherhood Without Banners in hopes of having a greater purpose.
Upon the return of the White Walkers and the army of the dead, Sandor fought alongside the armies of Jon Snow and Daenerys Targaryen in order to prevent a second Long Night. Following their victory, Sandor returned to a decimated King's Landing, where he died throwing himself from the Red Keep, alongside Gregor, ending their bitter lifelong rivalry and fulfilling his campaign of revenge.
Sandor Clegane is a skilled warrior in the service of House Lannister, known primarily for the horrible facial scarring he bears on the right side of his face and for his fierce demeanor and lack of chivalry. Sandor is the younger brother of Ser Gregor Clegane, nicknamed "the Mountain", a monstrously huge knight and arguably the most feared man in Westeros. In his youth, Gregor nearly burned off half of Sandor's face because he found Sandor playing with a toy that Gregor had discarded. Sandor didn't even "steal" it, he was merely playing with it and assumed he didn't need Gregor's permission. Without warning or uttering a word, however, Gregor grabbed Sandor and "punished" him by holding his head into a burning brazier. Gregor was only forced to stop after half a dozen servants managed to pry him away from his brother. The incident left severe burn scars over the right half of Sandor's face, thus he usually wears his hair long on that side to cover them. Instead of blaming Gregor, their father merely stated Sandor's bed caught fire. Ever since, Sandor has been deeply afraid of fire.
Sandor's first kill.
Although not as large as his older brother, Sandor is very large and a formidable fighter in his own right, considered one of the most skilled and dangerous men in Westeros. Sandor gutted his first man in combat when he was twelve years old (given the date, this was probably as a young soldier during Robert's Rebellion). Sandor finds killing to be the best thing in the world, and although he isn't a crazed killer who will murder anyone regardless of the law like his brother, he cynically pursues occupations as a bodyguard and soldier which allow him to kill legally--though he scoffs at the hypocrisy of people who think there's really much of a difference. After seeing his brother knighted by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen despite being an infamously dishonorable man, Sandor became jaded with knighthood and developed an extreme contempt for romances and songs which present knights and wars as chivalrous and glorious, knowing all too well that supposedly honorable knights frequently butcher the innocent while claiming glory. Thus, Sandor has steadfastly refused to be knighted or take holy vows. Sandor wears a dark set of heavy armor when in battle, and is known to wear a custom helmet shaped like a snarling hound's head, after his family's sigil. He rides a personal warhorse called Stranger, whose namesake is the seventh and final god in the Faith of the Seven who represents death and the unknown.
Sandor arrives in Winterfell.
Sandor is part of King Robert Baratheon's retinue when he visits Winterfell in order to offer Eddard Stark the role of Hand of the King. He acts as the bodyguard of Prince Joffrey and is present at the feast held in the King's honor. Robert offers a betrothal between Joffrey and Sansa Stark and Eddard accepts both engagements.
On the Kingsroad back to the capital the royal party reaches the Inn at the Crossroads. Sandor introduces Sansa to Ser Ilyn Payne, the king's headsman, a fearsome man who had his tongue torn out on the orders of the Mad King many years ago. Joffrey "saves" Sansa from this unpleasantness and takes her for a walk along the riverbank. Joffrey provokes an argument with the butcher's son Mycah and Arya, and is bitten by Nymeria when he attacks them. Joffrey lies about the incident and Sansa supports his version of events. Sandor chases down and kills Mycah. When he returns with Mycah's corpse, Ned confronts him, saying accusingly "You rode him down." Without bothering to face Ned, the Hound remorselessly says "He ran. Not very fast."
Sandor guards the royal family during the tournament.
On his return to King's Landing Sandor stands guard over Joffrey during the tournament held in honor of Eddard's appointment as Hand. Sandor watches distastefully as his brother Gregor kills Ser Hugh of the Vale. Littlefinger tells Sansa that Sandor and Gregor hate one another because, when he was very young, Sandor played with one of Gregor's toys without his elder brother's permission. Gregor held Sandor's face over an open fire, resulting in his hideous burns. They have been enemies ever since.
Loras proclaims Sandor the champion.
Sandor is amused when Gregor is unhorsed in a joust with Ser Loras Tyrell. Gregor attacks Loras and Sandor intervenes, saving Loras from a would-be-fatal blow. They exchange blows until King Robert orders a halt to the madness. Whilst Sandor bows to his king, Gregor begrudging storms off. Loras thanks Sandor "for his life, Ser", to which Sandor states that he is no "Ser." Loras then declares Sandor a champion and the smallfolk in the crowd cheer him, to Sandor's surprise and embarrassment.
King Robert subsequently dies following a hunting accident. Sandor stands guard over King Joffrey as his advisers and vassals swear fealty to him. When Eddard attempts to have Joffrey and Cersei arrested, Sandor joins the Lannister soldiers and men of the City Watch in cutting down Eddard's bodyguards, allowing him to be taken prisoner. Sandor leads a party of Lannister guardsmen to the Red Keep where they slaughter Eddard's entourage and capture Sansa. He is later present in the throne room when Ser Barristan Selmy is dismissed from the Kingsguard, a grave affront since members serve for life, and Selmy is offended enough to draw his sword and claim he could cut through all the remaining Kingsguard with ease. Sandor looks wary for the first time, since Selmy is actually that skilled, but the old knight then throws the sword down and storms out. Sandor is made a member of the sworn brotherhood, though he refuses to take the vows of knighthood.
Sandor offers advice to Sansa.
Sandor guards Joffrey during the execution of Eddard Stark on the steps of the Great Sept of Baelor. After Lord Stark is beheaded by Ser Ilyn, Sandor picks up his head and shows it off to the crowd. Later, Sandor accompanies Joffrey when he takes Sansa to see the heads of her father, Septa Mordane and the rest of the Stark household whilst cruelly mocking her, even having Ser Meryn Trant beat her when she suggests that Robb might win the war. When the Hound alone notices that Sansa plans to throw Joffrey from the battlements, he offers Sansa a handkerchief for her bloodied mouth, rescuing Sansa from Joffrey's rage as well as Joffrey from a quick death.
Sandor watches Joffrey's torture of Sansa.
Sandor fights in King Joffrey Baratheon's nameday tournament, killing his opponent. Joffrey congratulates him on his skill, whilst berating Sansa, still his fiancee despite her father's "treason." Joffrey has Sansa Stark stripped and publicly beaten by Meryn Trant following Robb Stark's victory at the Battle of Oxcross, whilst Sandor stands uncomfortably. Sandor gives her his white cloak to cover herself after Tyrion Lannister orders an end to the beating.
Tyrion thanks Sandor for saving Sansa.
Joffrey's rule sees increasing public dissent. While in public he is hit by thrown excrement and triggers a citywide riot by demanding the deaths of all the smallfolk present. Sandor fights through the crowd to get him to safety but has no patience for the whingeing king's complaints that he wants the crowd executed, snarking back that "they want the same for [Joffrey]" and then goes back for Sansa, rescuing her from a gang of would be rapists, after which he is thanked by Tyrion. Sandor dismisses his praise.
Sansa thanks the dismissive Sandor.
Sansa approaches Sandor to thank him for rescuing her. He tells her that he revels in killing and she questions his hatefulness. Sandor says that she will one day be glad of the hateful things he does when he is all that stands between her and Joffrey. Sandor later catches Sansa and Shae trying to conceal evidence that Sansa has begun flowering. He informs Queen Cersei Lannister, who begins to mentally prepare Sansa for motherhood.
Sandor's fear of fire is revealed during the siege.
He guards Joffrey during the Battle of the Blackwater. He is horrified when Tyrion uses wildfire to decimate the attacking fleet. Tyrion orders him to lead a sortie to repel Stannis Baratheon's troops from the River Gate and he obliges, promising to rape the corpse of any man who dies with a clean sword. He kills several men, even cutting one clean in half, but is overwhelmed by his fear of fire and freezes in the midst of the fighting. He is nearly killed but Bronn intervenes, saving his life. He retreats back inside the walls and demands wine to drink.
Sandor tells Sansa what will become of her if she remains in King's Landing.
After being chastised by Tyrion Lannister, who urges him to fight for his King, Sandor retorts "fuck the King", and deserts from the Kingsguard and leaves the battle. He heads to Sansa Stark's chamber, where Sansa is now hiding during the chaos of the battle, and offers to protect her and take her north to Winterfell. She declines, believing that Stannis Baratheon has won the battle and that she will be safe once his men find her. He explains that she will be surrounded by killers and promises to protect her. Unable to convince her to come with him, he walks out of her chambers and leaves the city.
Sandor is captured by the Brotherhood Without Banners, and is brought before Thoros of Myr at the Inn at the Crossroads. Sandor mocks the Brotherhood before revealing the identity of Arya Stark to the Brotherhood, who attempts to flee when she sees him. He is then loaded into a prisoner cart by Anguy, during which he is confronted by Arya, who angrily asks him if he remembers the last time he was here, but he simply says all poor inns look the same.
The Brotherhood questions the Hound.
He is then brought to the hollow hill, where is he is confronted by the Brotherhood's leader, Beric Dondarrion. The Brotherhood still tries to convict him of crimes, because of his long service to the Lannisters, but cannot find anything against him. They also accuse him of being accountable of the total number of crimes committed by House Clegane, such as the events of the Sack of King's Landing and the Battle at the Mummer's Ford, which Sandor explains that those were the crimes of his brother alone.
Arya speaks up, and accuses him of killing her friend Mycah. Sandor does not deny this murder, but says he was in no place to question then-Prince Joffrey's orders. The Brotherhood charge him with the crime of following orders to kill Mycah, but will give him a fair trial by combat. He asks who will be his opponent, expecting to win easily against those who deems cowardly or dismissive of the real world, and is shocked when Beric announces he himself will face him.
The Hound faces Beric.
Using magic, Beric ignites his blade with fire, initially giving him an advantage during the fight due to Sandor's fear of fire. However, Sandor briefly manages to overcome his phobia and his superior strength eventually is enough to overpower Beric, and with a powerful downward swipe Sandor cuts deep into Beric's shoulder, nearly cutting off his entire arm and cutting right through Beric's flaming sword.
The Hound is pardoned by the Brotherhood.
Arya attempts to kill Sandor while he tries to extinguish his shield which had been set ablaze during the fight, but she is stopped by Gendry. He taunts Arya over how the gods prefer him over her friend, but he is interrupted and shocked by Beric, who has been revived and healed by Thoros using the Lord of Light's power. Beric honors their agreement, and Sandor is released.
However, Sandor does not move far from the hollow hill, staying in the surrounding forest. He then seizes an opportunity after Arya flees from the Brotherhood in outrage over them handing Gendry over to the Red Priestess Melisandre in exchange for gold, and preferring to hunt down a group of Lannister soldiers instead of delivering her to her relatives at Riverrun. Sandor takes her hostage as she leaves the cave.
The Hound and Arya travel towards the Twins.
Arya attempts to kill Sandor with a rock, thinking he is sound asleep. He opens his eyes and tells her she has one chance to hit him, and kill him, but if she fails he will break her hands. Later she sits on the horse with him sullen and refusing food he offers her. Sandor points out that for all she hates him, Arya could have been taken captive by someone far worse. He tells her about Sansa and how he rescued her from a group of would-be rapists. Arya disbelieves this, but Sandor says "Ask your sister if you ever see her again." They arrive at a river which Arya initially thinks to be the Blackwater. He points out that the river is the Red Fork of the Trident. Arya believed he was taking her back to King's Landing, but he reveals that he is in fact taking her to The Twins, where her mother and brother will shortly be attending her uncle's wedding to Roslin Frey, and he will ransom her to them. He tells her ruefully that if she wasn't so busy trying to kill him they might make it in time for the wedding, which somewhat amuses Arya.
Sandor spots an opportunity.
On the way there, Sandor spots a man with a wagon full of pork products. He gets down down his horse and feign friendliness before incapacitating him. He moves to kill him when Arya intervenes, knocking the man out but not killing him. Sandor remarks on the fact that Arya's kindness will one day get her killed. When they reach the surrounding fields of the Twins, Sandor realizes that Arya is afraid of not reaching her mother and brother, since she is now the closest to family she has been in years. The two have a frank discussion and Arya tells Sandor that she knows the one thing that he is afraid of: fire. She had noticed his reaction to Beric's flaming sword. Hurting, in then reminds Arya of her father's death, to which Arya states that, one day, she will kill Sandor, shocking him.
As they arrive at the Twins, the massacre of Stark bannermen begins. Arya escapes and attempts to enter the castle, but is knocked unconscious by Sandor. Realizing that it is too late to do anything, Sandor mounts his horse with Arya. They are both shocked to see Robb Stark's mutilated corpse but are able to flee the castle yard during the chaos, using a banner of House Frey to cover themselves.
Sandor asks Arya about murder as he eats.
While riding, Sandor and Arya come across a group of Frey soldiers at a campfire. Arya dismounts from Sandor's horse, approaches them, and kills one of them. When the rest of the group are about to attack Arya, Sandor protects her and kills them. Sandor takes his knife back from Arya, then sits and eats what the deceased soldiers have left. He asks if this was Arya's first murder. She states it was her first "man."
Sandor continues to keep Arya hostage.
With Robb dead, Sandor now intends to ransom Arya, who is growing increasingly annoyed of her close proximity to him, to her aunt Lysa Arryn in the Vale. Eventually, they arrive at a tavern. Arya suggests attacking the men there, but as there are five men, Sandor is reluctant to do so. When Arya recognizes one of the men as Polliver, the Lannister man-at-arms who took her sword Needle, she tries to get it back. Sandor stops her at the tavern door, but they are noticed by the men inside. Wishing to avoid suspicion, the two calmly enter.
The Hound and Polliver argue.
Inside the tavern, Polliver recognizes Sandor. He moves to the table Sandor and Arya are occupying and tries to make small talk. Polliver eventually invites Sandor to join him in raiding and pillaging anyone they wish, as he and his men wear king's colors. Sandor leans forward and growls, "Fuck the King", and the whole tavern goes silent. Sandor then tells Polliver to get him some chickens. Finally, Polliver questions the Hound that he would not die for the king but would for a couple of chickens, and Sandor responds that someone will die for them.
The Hound and Arya triumphantly journey to the Vale.
The tension finally snaps and Sandor throws a table over Polliver. Sandor proceeds to single-handedly kill all but one of Polliver's men and Polliver himself, even repeatedly stabbing one in the head with his own knife. When Polliver attempts to kill the distracted Sandor, he is attacked from behind by Arya, who cripples his legs, takes back her stolen sword Needle, and uses it to kill him. The pair then leave the tavern, Arya now with a stolen horse and Needle; Sandor with his chicken.
While still traveling to the Eyrie, Arya asks Sandor what he will do once he ransoms her to Lysa Arryn. Sandor states that he might leave Westeros and fight as a sellsword in the Free Cities, possibly with the Second Sons. At the mention of the Free Cities, Arya states she would like to see Braavos one day, but Sandor doubts she knows anyone there.
The Hound and Arya lodge with the farmer.
The two are interrupted by a farmer and his daughter Sally. Arya covers for Sandor's rude behavior by telling them that Sandor is her father that was wounded in the war and she lost her mother. The farmer asks which house did he fight for and Arya replies that he fought for House Tully. The farmer offers them refuge from the coming rain as well as food. The farmer reveals that they are having a hard time due to raiders doing as they please around, as well as needing a hand with farm work. He then proceed to offer what little silver he has left for Sandor's service, which Sandor agrees to.
Arya chastises Sandor.
Arya is awakened next morning and surprised that Sandor has broken his promise and robbed the farmer of the silver instead. When furiously questioned by Arya, Sandor replies that both the farmer and daughter will die by winter due to lack of resources and protection, and dead people don't need money. Arya proceeds to berate Sandor furiously, but Sandor retorts that there are more terrible things happening all over the place and that she needs to learn to be practical and make ugly decisions.
The Hound awakens to find Arya gone; temporarily.
Later, he shares with Arya his desire to kill his brother Gregor, and is surprised to hear that Arya wants to kill him. The next morning, he finds Arya gone when he awakes, but finds her practicing her Water Dancing on the riverbank below the hill, and proceeds to mock her for it. He also mocks Syrio Forel for being killed by Ser Meryn Trant, who is supposedly worthless as a swordsman. He then shows Arya that Needle is unable to penetrate armor.
At a meeting of the Small Council, Varys informs the other members that The Hound has been seen in the Riverlands. Cersei calls Sandor a coward and a traitor for his abandonment of the Battle of the Blackwater. After learning of the incident at the tavern, Tywin raises the bounty on Clegane from ten to one hundred Silver Stags.
Biter attacks Sandor, seconds before he kills him.
Arya and Sandor arrive at a ransacked village in which they find a mortally wounded man. After putting him out of his misery, Sandor is attacked by Biter who sinks his teeth in the Hound's neck. Sandor manages to overpower him and kills him by snapping his neck. The other man, Rorge, is recognized by Arya as one of the men in the prisoner wagon in Yoren's group. The Hound asks if Rorge is on Arya's list, but she denies as she doesn't know his name. Sandor asks Rorge his name and after giving it, Rorge is promptly stabbed in the heart with Needle by Arya. Sandor cynically comments she learns.
The Hound attempts to heal his damaged neck.
Later, Sandor clumsily tries to stitch the bite wound, which has begun to fester. Arya offers to cauterize the wound with a burning torch, but Sandor brusquely refuses due to his fear of fire. After hearing that Arya received her sword Needle from her brother, Sandor remarks that instead of a sword, his brother Gregor give him his horrible facial scarring simply because Sandor was playing with a wooden toy knight without his brother's permission. He tells her that although the pain was bad and the smell worse, the worst part of it all was that it was his own brother who did it to him, and that his father covered up the incident to protect Gregor. Arya offers to clean the wound by washing it, which Sandor silently accepts.
Sandor and Arya finally arrive in the Vale. They argue over about what brings Arya happiness, the Hound declaring that nothing makes her happy and Arya retorting that killing men like Polliver and Rorge make her happy. She laments over not being able to witness Joffrey's death or kill him herself. Sandor concurs that he deserved his death, but dismisses Joffrey's cause of death, poison, as a woman's weapon and proclaiming that men kill with steel, which Arya regards as stupid pride talking and why he will never be a great killer, claiming she would have killed Joffrey with a chicken bone if necessary, which the Hound finds heartily amusing.
Arya laughs at Sandor's lack of luck.
Sandor shows some discomfort from the bite wound he sustained earlier, to which Arya replies he should have let her cauterize it with fire. The Hound dismisses it as a flea bite, but Arya mentions Sandor was much slower because of the wound. They are stopped by a guard. When Sandor mentions Arya Stark, niece of Lady Lysa, the guard tells them Lysa is dead, leaving Sandor dumbstruck and Arya in an uncontrollable fit of laughter over Sandor's repeated failed attempts to ransom her.
A short while later, Sandor and Arya meet Brienne of Tarth and her squire, Podrick Payne, who have been on a quest to find the Stark sisters. After Podrick, who had squired in King's Landing during Sandor's time there, recognizes him, Brienne demands that Sandor turn over Arya to her as she had made a vow to her mother to look after her. Sandor bluntly refuses, chastising Brienne for trying to look over Arya over some vow to her dead family and questioning her about her relationship with the Lannisters.
The Hound fights Brienne on a clifftop.
The argument grows heated and breaks out into a fight between the two warriors. Even with Sandor being severely fatigued, underfed and wounded with an infectious bite, he attacks Brienne after she draws her sword. Initially clashing swords, the fight grows more intense when the two are forced to rely on their bare fists. Beating each other down, Brienne bites off a part of Sandor's ear and strikes him numerous times with a large stone before throwing him down the clifftop. After successfully hiding from Brienne and Podrick, Arya finds Sandor beaten and with his leg broken, suffering from his infected neck and the fall from the cliff.
Sandor after battling Brienne.
He tells her that it's the end of the line for him and demands wine but she has none. He then demands that she kill him putting him out of his misery and cross his name off her list, unaware she has already removed his name from her list. Trying to goad Arya into killing him, he joyfully laughs about killing her friend, Mycah, and also says that he should've forced himself upon Sansa when he had the chance. Arya doesn't give in, despite his desperate pleas for death. Arya instead takes his coins from him before walking away, leaving him for dead.
While talking to Jaqen H'ghar, Arya recalls the time when she robbed Sandor and left him to die after fighting Brienne of Tarth. Arya insists that she hates Sandor and wants him to suffer, but Jaqen can tell she is lying and hits her several times.
Sandor attempt to start a life anew.
A few days after his duel with Brienne, Sandor is found and nursed back to health by former soldier and Septon Ray, who takes him to live with his band of villagers. While building a sept, Ray recounts saving Sandor after mistaking him for a corpse. When Ray mentions justice, Sandor responds that if there was justice in the world, he should have been punished for his past crimes. Ray responds that perhaps he has been punished already but been given a second chance. Sandor is present when Ray gives a talk to the villagers recounting how his violent experiences as a soldier had led him to undergo a conversion experience.
The Hound becomes concerned as the Brotherhood arrive at the congregation.
Later, the villagers are visited by three horsemen from the Brotherhood Without Banners, led by Lem Lemoncloak, who attempt to extort the group. Brother Ray tells the riders that they have no gold or weapons and the horsemen leave. Following the encounter with the Brotherhood, Sandor tells Ray that they should have shared their food and steel with them. While Ray thinks that they have seen the last of the Brotherhood, Sandor thinks they will return. After chopping wood in the forest, Sandor returns to the village only to discover that the Brotherhood has massacred the villagers. He finds the Septon hanging from a beam in the wooden sept. Angered by the cold-blooded murder of innocents, Sandor grabs his axe and heads off.
He tracks down two of the suspected perpetrators and two innocent young men sitting around a campfire. Suspecting them all to be the perpetrators, Sandor brutally kills the two innocent young men, decapitating one of them, then burying his axe into the second before slitting the first outlaw's throat and finally swinging his axe into the second outlaw's crotch. He demands Lem's whereabouts, but the man only answers with "Fuck you" Sandor then mocks the bandit, saying "Those are you last words? 'Fuck You'?", and says he could do better. The bandit then calls him a cunt, prompting Sandor to say he is "shit at dying", before finishing him off with an axe to the head.
Sandor is told of the Northern threat.
Sandor eventually finds Lem and his two cronies, about to be hanged by Beric Dondarrion and Thoros of Myr. Sandor demands the privilege of murdering them himself, but relents and settles by hanging Lem and one crony personally, then taking Lem's boots for himself. Later, while eating with the Brotherhood, Beric reminisces on his previous fight with Sandor and convinces him to join their cause, as they are heading North to counter the coming White Walkers.
Sandor travels with the Brotherhood.
The Brotherhood Without Banners and Sandor are traveling through the Riverlands and remark upon the colder weather as they reach further North. They come across a seemingly abandoned farmhouse, which Sandor recognizes as the farmhouse he and Arya stayed at a few years earlier after being invited in by a farmer and his young daughter, Sally. As the group moves inside to see if anyone is staying at the farmhouse, Sandor and Beric discover the long dead bodies of both the farmer and Sally inside. Beric and he remark that they most likely committed suicide to avoid starvation.
Later, during dinner inside, Sandor questions Beric on why he keeps being resurrected, to which Beric replies he does not know. When Beric talks about the divine justice of the Lord of Light, Sandor dismissively states that if there was such a thing, then Beric would be dead while Sally would still be alive. Thoros then asks Sandor to look into the flames in the hearth. Despite protesting it was his luck to get stuck "with a bunch of fire worshipers", Sandor looks into the flames and sees a vision. He says he sees a mountain shaped like an arrow, a castle on the Wall, and wights marching towards it. Beric remarks that even though he does not know why he keeps being resurrected, he says that there must be a reason with Sandor agreeing after seeing his vision.
Sandor buries the farmer and his daughter.
Later that night while everyone is sleeping, Sandor goes outside and starts digging graves for the father and daughter. Thoros hears this and goes out to help. After placing the bodies in the grave, Sandor tries to say a prayer for them, but forgets the wording of the Seven. He then apologizes, saying that they both deserved better before going back inside the farmhouse.
Upon reaching Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, Sandor and the Brotherhood are immediately apprehended by wildlings serving alongside the Night's Watch, and confined in the ice cells below the castle. Since the King in the North Jon Snow lacks enough men for his ranging mission into the Lands of Always Winter to capture a Wight, he decides to recruit the Brotherhood.
Sandor ventures beyond the Wall.
Jon recognizes Sandor from the latter's visit to Winterfell years ago, while Gendry openly distrusts the men of the Brotherhood. When Beric gives a speech claiming that the Lord of Light brought them together, a bored Sandor cuts him off and asks Jon if they are coming with them. Jon agrees and says they are all on the same side because they are still breathing. Sandor joins the rest of the Brotherhood, Jon, the wildlings (led by Tormund Giantsbane), Gendry, and Jorah Mormont in leaving Eastwatch and traveling north of the Wall.
While traveling with Jon's companions, Sandor is approached by Tormund, who shows an interest in his burn scars. Though Sandor is hostile towards Tormund and accuses him of desiring him, he appears shocked when he deduces that the woman Tormund lusts after is Brienne of Tarth, and dismisses Tormund's hopes of one day ending up with her. During a snowstorm, the group see a huge bear in the distance which bursts out of the storm and kills tow of their group, revealing it to be a wight. Thoros and Beric set it alight with their flaming swords but this causes Sandor to freeze up and results in the monstrous bear fatally mauling Thoros before it is permanently put down.
Sandor sees the mountain from his vision.
He later recognizes the mountain from his vision, and Jon decides to lead the group there. With Sandor's help, the group manages to capture a lone wight, although they later are forced onto a frozen lake by the army of the dead, who wait for the lake to refreeze. Thoros soon dies of his wounds, and Sandor, despite his regret, starts drinking Thoros's wine before Jon snatches it from him to use it to burn Thoros's body. Sandor glares at Jon, but relents.
Sandor and the group spot the Night King.
As Jon, Jorah and Beric spot the Night King in the distance, Beric suggests that they go for the Night King himself, as slaying him will destroy the entire army, but Sandor warns Beric that with Thoros gone, this is effectively his last life now, as he can no longer be brought back. A while later, Sandor disinterestedly starts throwing rocks at the wights. However, one rock skids across the surface, signalling that the ice has refrozen. Sandor kills many wights with Gendry's hammer and saves Tormund's life before Daenerys saves the group, and witnesses Viserion's death at the hands of the Night King. As they fly back to Eastwatch, Sandor saves Jorah by grabbing him when he briefly falls off Drogon's back.
Sandor leaves Eastwatch with the wight in tow.
Back at Eastwatch, Sandor parts ways from Tormund and Beric, the latter of which assures Sandor that they will meet again. Sandor hopes otherwise. Sandor travels with Jon via to the Dragonpit Summit, marking his first return to the city since he abandoned it during the Battle of the Blackwater. At one point, he ventures below decks to check the crate carrying the wight. However, he backs away in fear when the crate shakes violently. He reunites with Brienne, and recalls how she nearly killed him. Brienne informs him of Arya's safety, and how she can defend herself and Sandor is pleased by the news.
The Hound threatens the Mountain.
When Cersei arrives for the meeting in the Dragonpit with Gregor at her side, Sandor steps out to confront his brother, remarking that Gregor is now even uglier than himself. Sandor threatens Gregor before leaving to collect the captured wight. Sandor ultimately muses however that what happened to Gregor is irrelevant, and promises what's left of his brother that he still intends to end Gregor.
Sandor controls the wight.
He then kicks the crate containing the wight, sending running towards Cersei. Sandor then pulls the wight back from its adjacent chain, dragging it towards him before cutting it into pieces with his sword to prove the wights' abilities. Cersei agrees to join Jon and Daenerys in the Great War against the White Walkers, however, she is secretly planning their demise by not sending men and hoping that the bulk of the army of the living will be killed by the army of the dead. Sandor later sails to White Harbor, as Daenerys and Jon join all their collective forces to band together at Winterfell to await the coming showdown the Night King.
Sandor and Arya are reunited at Winterfell.
Sandor Clegane arrives horseback with Daenerys's army of Unsullied. He is seen later in the forges while Gendry prepares him an ax made of Dragonglass. While he waits for the weapon, he makes a snide remark to Gendry, only to be cut off by Arya who defends Gendry. He points out that she left him for dead, to which she replies, "First I robbed you." He realizes just how ruthless and trained the girl has become, by saying, "You're a cold little bitch, aren't you? Guess that's why you're still alive", before stalking off.
Sandor and Arya wait for the battle
In preparation for the fight to come, Sandor goes up on the walls of the castle and drinks alone until he is approached by Arya, who asks him why someone like him, who is used to only fight for himself, has now joined a greater cause. Sandor recalls that he did fight for her once. They are then approached by Beric Dondarrion, who begins to speak about the Lord of Light before Sandor interrupts him, threatening to throw him off Winterfell's ramparts. Once Arya is gone, Sandor remains drinking with Beric while waiting for the battle to begin.
During the Battle of Winterfell, Sandor is initially on the frontline of the infantry, which falls under attack after the Dothraki cavalry was eliminated by the wights. Sandor fights off many wights but is forced to retreat with the rest of his troops as there are far too many enemies. Sandor is left distraught when the trench is set on fire, which causes his pyrophobia to resurface to the point that he refuses to fight any longer, claiming to Beric that they cannot defeat death. However, Sandor musters the courage to resume the fight upon seeing Arya struggling against a group of wights.
Sandor watches as Melisandre dies.
Sandor and Beric search for Arya in the castle, and find her chased by several wights. They manage to save her and retreat in the Great Hall, where they encounter Melisandre. As Beric has died from his wounds and Arya leaves to face the White Walkers, Sandor remains in the hall with Melisandre until the end of the battle, which is ended by the complete annihilation of the army of the dead. Exiting the castle's interior, Sandor sees Melisandre departing without a word to meet her death.
Sandor and Sansa discuss the tragedy of their lives.
While the living celebrate their victory over the dead, Sandor expresses disinterest in sleeping with any woman. When Sansa talks to him, he states she wouldn't have to go through the trauma she went through if she escaped King's Landing with him during Battle of the Blackwater. Sansa however replies that if she did, she wouldn't have learnt so much and would still be a "little bird."
Sandor convinces Arya to escape.
During the Battle of King's Landing, Sandor and Arya infiltrate King's Landing in order to assassinate Cersei. After they reach the Red Keep, Sandor witnesses the destruction being wrought by Drogon and convinces Arya to leave the city in order to survive. He is able to reach the Red Keep and effortlessly slaughters the surviving Queensguard, but allows Cersei to flee, only having desire to kill Gregor and knowing that the Lannister queen will likely die during Daenerys's attack.
Sandor confronts Gregor.
Staring up at his monstrous figure, Sandor draws his sword and attacks head-on. He manages to remove Gregor's helmet, revealing a grotesque appearance. He eventually impales Gregor through his stomach, but it proves useless, due to his state of apparent undeath. Despite stabbing him repeatedly in the neck and chest, Gregor shows no signs of pain, as he picks Sandor up and slams him against a column. Gregor proceeds to gouge Sandor's eyes, much the same as he did with Oberyn, but fails to destroy them completely, as Sandor stabs him through his left eye with his dagger. Sandor, with what vision he has left, screams angrily and throws himself and Gregor through a crumbling wall and off the falling tower to their fiery deaths below.
Sandor Clegane shares many traits with his brother, such as his large build, immense strength and toughness. He is a skilled swordsman, but favors heavy strikes and brute force, like his brother he utilizes his sword in a one-handed style.
Sandor suffers from pyrophobia as a result of a childhood trauma in which his own brother forced his face into a fire. As a result, Sandor freezes up in situations that could result in his death such as during the Battle of the Blackwater and his recent quest beyond the Wall.
The Hound is seen as a violent, aggressive and brutal man, with a fatalistic view of the world. He is a formidable warrior and he doesn't hide his love of killing people, believing all men love it, and he generally hates soldiers who try to convince themselves otherwise. However, he also displays small hints at being a reasonably affectionate and compassionate man underneath, particularly in respect of the Starks girls. This is largely a result of his disgust at the brutality of his older brother Gregor: the respect and knighthood given to Gregor for his extreme brutality left Sandor thoroughly disillusioned that honorable men succeed in the real world the way they do in romantic songs. His growing disgust at Joffrey's sadism and concern for both of the Stark girls, however, show that he is not yet so cynical that there are no moral boundaries he wouldn't cross.
There were a few times when the Hound showed compassion: he offered Sansa to take her back to Winterfell, which she declines; during the Hand's Tourney, to stop his brother (a man he hates beyond any calculation) from needlessly butchering Loras; in respect of Arya, despite having initially a captor-prisoner relationship, he becomes protective and even trusting of Arya, implying a significant bond has grown between them, this is reflected later on when Arya tells the Waif that she had taken him off of her list. During the Battle of Winterfell, he immediately goes to save Arya.
After his near-death experience, Sandor becomes more reflective of his actions and many of Septon Ray's teachings resonate with him, helping him to develop an aversion to unnecessary violence and a desire to live in a peaceful, contributory manner.
Although he came across individuals who, in their own way, were deeply religious, Sandor himself remains reluctant to religion, citing how people fighting for entities supposedly larger than themselves often bring nothing but violence and chaos in the world.
Although Sandor sometimes showed chivalry when a highborn person (Loras, Sansa, Arya) was in danger, he was capable of great cruelty toward commoners: he killed in cold blood a harmless, unarmed kid, claiming that he was obliged to follow Joffrey's commands (not so differently than what his brother did to an infant at Tywin's orders), and never expressed any regret; on the contrary, he even joked about the foul deed. He also treated the farmer very viciously: he ruthlessly beat the defenseless man up and robbed him, excusing his brutality by claiming that the farmer and his daughter were doomed anyway so they did not have any use for the money; instead of figuring a way to help them, Sandor made their condition even worse, and left them no hope of survival at all. In this aspect, the Hound was not so different from his brother.
Spoken by Sandor
Spoken about/to Sandor
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, House Clegane is a minor vassal house sworn to the Lannisters. Ser Gregor Clegane is an eight-foot-tall knight known as the "Mountain That Rides", and is the most feared warrior in the Seven Kingdoms, as well as Sandor's older brother. The Clegane brothers detest one another, resulting in Sandor leaving home at a young age to work as a sellsword and freerider. Sandor is known as "the Hound" for the three dogs which are his house emblem and for his fierce loyalty to House Lannister.
Sandor is very tall and well-built but not outright freakishly so, the way his brother Gregor is. George R.R. Martin described Sandor as taller than Brienne of Tarth (who is slightly over six feet tall), but shorter than Greatjon Umber (who is nearly seven feet tall) - actor Rory McCann matches this well, being exactly six and a half feet tall.
In the books, it is the opposite side of Sandor's face that is burned. His burns are also more severe than prosthetics can easily show on the TV series: his jawbone is exposed, as the skin above it was completely burned away, and his ear on the burned side is completely gone, leaving only a hole.
The history of Sandor's burns is revealed to Sansa by Sandor himself, and delivered with a warning that he will kill her if she ever reveals it to anyone; Arya is never told about that, neither by Sandor nor by anyone else. In the television adaption, Littlefinger tells Sansa of the origins of Sandor's burned face as they attend the Hand's Tournament in King's Landing, with the same ominous warning as to what will happen to her should she tell anyone else; Arya sits next to Sansa and listens to the story too.
In "A Game of Thrones" Sandor shuns the traditional white plate armor of the Kingsguard, instead opting to wear his white cloak over his original gray armor. This is not the case on first season. By the second season, Sandor dons the style described in the books, of just wearing the white cloak over his own gray armor.
The Hound and Arya never make it to the Bloody Gate, and do not hear about Lysa's death. They reach a small village where they reside for several weeks. The village elder warns them that heavy snow and frost cover the high passes to the Vale, and the Hill tribes have become fearless now that they are armed with steel. The Hound decides not to go to Riverrun or the Wall, but to Saltpans, and travel from there to the Vale by sea.
The bloody brawl at the Inn at the Crossroads is significantly different than in the show: the people whom Arya and the Hound encounter are Polliver, the Tickler and a squire. Polliver demands that the Hound comes with them to Harrenhal. In the ensuing brawl, the Hound kills Polliver, but is severely injured by the Tickler (whom Arya kills). Significantly, the Hound and Arya never encounter Brienne; Arya does take his money and leave him to die, but his terminal condition results from the infection of his wound from the Inn, not any new injuries sustained in additional combat.
Sandor's fate is similarly ambiguous in the novels: Arya simply leaves him to die, but has never been confirmed that he actually died. In A Feast for Crows (chapter 31, Brienne VI), during their search for Sansa and Arya, Brienne and Podrick Payne visit a monastery at the Quiet Isle, where they spot a limping hooded man fitting Sandor's general description works as a gravedigger; Sandor's horse, Stranger, is also there. The Elder Brother tells Brienne that the Hound is dead and that he buried him himself, covered him with stones, and set his helm atop the cairn to mark his final resting place. The Elder Brother tells further: "I came upon him by the Trident, drawn by his cries of pain. He begged me for the gift of mercy, but I am sworn not to kill again. Instead, I bathed his fevered brow with river water, and gave him wine to drink and a poultice for his wound, but my efforts were too little and too late. The Hound died there, in my arms."
There is a fan speculation that the Elder Brother was speaking metaphorically: "the Hound" was dead, his violent and angry past, and "Sandor" had found his peace helping the refugees at the monastery. Though it has not been confirmed yet if Sandor is indeed the limping hooded gravedigger, his return in the television series implies he will return in a later novel.
Meanwhile, Rorge, who forms a band with Biter and five more of the Brave Companions, finds the Hound's helm and wears it when his gang raids Saltpans and other villages, committing terrible atrocities. This leads to false rumors that the Hound is the leader of these brigands.
Jaime is puzzled to hear the rumors about the Hound, since the aforementioned atrocities sound more like the Mountain's handiwork; the Hound has always been hard and brutal, but his big brother was the real monster of House Clegane. When Jaime is asked by Ser Bonifer Hasty what to do in case he encounters the Hound, he thinks "Pray hard and run", but says aloud "Send him to join his beloved brother and be glad the gods made seven hells. One would never be enough to hold both of the Cleganes."
Sandor's ultimate fate in the show matches the "Cleganebowl" fan theory, which states that Sandor is fated to have a showdown with his older brother.
Ser Loras Tyrell was a popular tourney knight and was regarded as one of the most skilled knights in Westeros. He was the heir to Highgarden, as well as being the younger brother of Margaery Tyrell, who would later become Queen of the Seven Kingdoms. He also had a long-term romantic relationship with Renly Baratheon and was devastated when Renly was murdered; following this, Loras fought at Blackwater to avenge his death, and helped to win the battle to save King's Landing. Afterwards, he stayed in the city to support his sister in the new alliance between the Tyrells and House Lannister. However, following the Faith Militant's subsequent takeover in the capital, he was arrested and sent to prison. Informed that his only hope of getting out was to confess and give up his inheritance, he forcibly abdicated his titles and became known as Brother Loras. However, he died only a few minutes later, along with his father and sister when the Great Sept of Baelor was destroyed in a plot orchestrated by Cersei Lannister.
Ser Loras Tyrell is the son of Lady Alerie Hightower and Lord Mace Tyrell, the Lord Paramount of the Reach and Warden of the South. The Reach is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Tyrell is one of the Great Houses of the realm. Loras was raised in privilege in the family seat and regional capital of Highgarden. Loras is the heir to Highgarden and the Tyrell lands and titles, and this status, along with his skills and good looks, makes him possibly the most sought-after bachelor in all of Westeros.
Loras is a skilled knight famed for his many tournament victories and his good looks, which make him popular with the smallfolk and with young women in particular. Loras is one of the few knights who has on rare occasion managed to defeat the formidable Jaime Lannister in a joust. He is commonly known as the "Knight of the Flowers", as a rose is the sigil of House Tyrell and he thus wears armor elaborately engraved with flowers.
Loras is the former squire of Lord Renly Baratheon and remains Renly's lover. When the series begins Loras is in King's Landing primarily to compete in tourneys and attend court.
When Catelyn Stark arrives in King's Landing with news of the attempt on Bran's life by the man with a knife, Littlefinger identifies it as his own knife which he lost to Tyrion Lannister on a bet that Loras would defeat Jaime Lannister in a joust which is why Catelyn takes Tyrion prisoner.
Loras gives Renly a knowing look.
Ser Loras takes part in the Hand's tournament, riding against Ser Gregor Clegane. He charms the common people by giving a rose to Sansa Stark, but at the same time, he also exchanges a look with his lover, Renly Baratheon. Loras uses a mare who is in heat to upset and confuse Gregor's mount, as Gregor is known to favor unruly stallions, making it easier to unseat him. Gregor, furious, decapitates his own horse with a sword, and then attacks Loras.
Loras declares Sandor champion.
Gregor's brother, Sandor, intervenes and saves Loras's life. Even though there is supposed to be one more round with Loras jousting against the Hound to determine a tournament winner, Loras proclaims Sandor the champion, to the approval of the crowds. When Loras raises Sandor's arm declaring him the winner, Sandor looks somewhat lost, as he is not used to the adoration and approval of the public that Ser Loras takes for granted.
Loras advises Renly on the possibility of his ascension.
Loras shaves Renly's chest in his chamber. Renly comments about how much Loras's armor must have cost his father. They discuss the succession and Loras suggests that Renly should claim the Iron Throne himself should anything happen to King Robert. Renly points out that he is fourth in line to the throne, behind his nephews Joffrey and Tommen and his brother Stannis. Loras dismisses them, saying that Joffrey is a monster, Tommen is too young and Stannis has all the charisma of a lobster. Loras suggests that the common people would support Renly, who is more widely known and popular. Loras suggests that his family would support and finance Renly's claim.
After Robert Baratheon is wounded and is expected not to live, Renly approaches Eddard Stark offering men so they can seize Joffrey before Cersei can consolidate her power, but Eddard chooses not to act while Robert still lives. The next day, he learns that Renly and Loras have fled the city with their loyal retainers, and were last seen riding south. Tywin Lannister learns that Renly has claimed the Iron Throne, as Loras had urged Renly to do.
Renly declares himself King of Westeros with the support of House Tyrell. He gathers an army of over 100,000 men from across the Reach and the Stormlands. He solidifies his alliance by marrying Loras's sister Margaery. He camps his army near Storm's End and throws a tournament for his men. Renly and his new Queen watch from a wooden dais. Margaery stands and cheers Loras as he disarms his opponent. His rival manages to step under a swing of his great axe and knock him off his feet.
Loras watches as Brienne requests to join Renly's Kingsguard.
Loras yields when his opponent lifts his visor and holds a knife close to his face. Renly congratulates the combatants as they stand and calls the winner forward. He commands them to stand and remove their helm. The crowd are shocked when the fighter is revealed to be a woman; Brienne of Tarth. Renly tells her that she is everything that her father promised. Margaery says that Loras fought valiantly and Renly agrees with her. He names Brienne champion and offers to grant anything that she requests. Brienne asks to join his Kingsguard, and he accepts. Loras is not happy about her appointment to the Kingsguard.
Catelyn Stark arrives and exchanges greetings with Renly and he promises justice for the execution of Eddard Stark. Loras interrupts to ask if Robb has marched against Tywin Lannister yet. Catelyn denies knowing Robb's strategy and says that she would not divulge it to them if she did. Loras says that Robb should have attended rather than sending his mother. Catelyn retorts that Robb is fighting a war rather than playing at one. Renly laughs off the barb and invites Catelyn to walk with him.
Renly attempts to arouse Loras.
Renly and Loras kiss passionately inside Renly's tent. Renly undresses his lover and notes his badly bruised chest before kissing the marks. Loras stops him and complains about Brienne's appointment to the Kingsguard being a further humiliation after she bested him in the tournament. Renly cites Brienne's devotion and then realizes that Loras is jealous. Loras denies jealousy, mocking her as "Brienne the Beauty". Renly begins to undo Loras's britches, saying that he will make it up to him.
Loras stops him and says that he must devote his attentions to another Tyrell that night. He reminds Renly of his responsibilities to their alliance and warns him that his vassals are gossiping about his bride still being a virgin two weeks after their marriage. Renly is disbelieving of Margaery's virginity and Loras says that she is still officially a virgin before going to fetch her.
Loras leaves his sister in the company of Littlefinger; both aware of his nature.
Renly is unable to perform with Margaery and she reveals that she is fully aware of his relationship with Loras. She offers to involve her brother next time, to get Renly "started", and reminds Renly of the importance of fathering an heir. Petyr Baelish later arrives at the camp and offers to open the gates of King's Landing to Renly. Loras walks Margaery through the camp and leaves her at Renly's tent where Petyr is waiting for her. Petyr reveals his knowledge of Renly and Loras's sexuality but Margaery is not intimidated and asserts her loyalty to Renly.
Before the Battle of Oxcross two Lannister sentries are debating who is the greatest swordsman in Westeros. They bring up Ser Gregor Clegane and Ser Jaime Lannister, but when one of them offers Loras Tyrell as a possibility, the other says that Loras Tyrell is not a great swordsman, as he has been stabbing Renly for years and Renly isn't dead.
Loras attends the Baratheon parley.
Renly meets his older brother Stannis Baratheon on the coast of the Stormlands to parley. Stannis is accompanied by Melisandre, Davos and several guards. Renly brings Catelyn, Brienne and Loras along with his own guards. They are unable to reach a compromise and Renly maintains his position that he would be a better ruler than Stannis. Stannis wheels his horse and rides away as Melisandre warns Renly to look to his sins because "The night is dark and full of terrors." Renly asks if his companions can believe that he loved Stannis once as he leads them away. Renly is later assassinated by a Shadow brought into the world by Melisandre just after agreeing to an alliance with House Stark. Brienne is found over the body of Renly, covered in his blood. She is mistakenly blamed for his death and kills two of Renly's Kingsguard in self-defense before fleeing the camp with Catelyn.
Loras mourns the death of his lover.
Loras stands vigil for his lover and king in the command tent. Margaery paces anxiously behind her brother. She tells Loras that they need to return home but he does not answer. Lord Petyr “Littlefinger” Baelish enters and greets them. Loras immediately orders him out of the tent. Littlefinger warns them that Stannis is an hour away and that when he arrives Renly’s bannermen will join his cause. He says that their companions will fight for the privilege of selling them to King Stannis. Loras stands and draws his sword and asks if Littlefinger is seeking the same privilege for himself. Petyr points out that he has come to warn them instead of going to Stannis.
Loras and Margaery debate Brienne's involvement in Renly's death.
Margaery pushes her brother’s blade away from Littlefinger and warns him that they have no time. Loras tells Margaery to ride back to Highgarden and says that he will not run from Stannis. Margaery says that Brienne killed Renly and Loras says that neither of them really believes that. He asks her who stood to gain the most from killing Renly and Littlefinger answers “Stannis.” Loras promises to avenge Renly by killing Stannis. Margaery says that they cannot stay. Loras tearfully returns to Renly’s side and asserts that he would have been a good and true king. Littlefinger asks Loras what he most desires and learns that it is revenge.
Loras considers his options.
He says that he has always found revenge to be a pure motivation but warns Loras that he will not have a chance to kill Stannis if he stays. Littlefinger cautions Loras to be smart if he wants justice. Margaery tells her brother that he cannot avenge Renly from the grave. She begs him to bring their horses as she strokes his hair. He rises from Renly's deathbed and goes to carry out her request.
Loras fights during the Battle of Blackwater, in Renly's armor.
Petyr obtains authorization from Lord Tywin Lannister to arrange an alliance with House Tyrell. Loras dons Renly's armor to fight alongside House Lannister in the Battle of the Blackwater. His forces arrive as Stannis is assaulting the River Gate and their cavalry charge routs Stannis's men. Loras accompanies Tywin to the throne room to announce the victory, and is seen dressed in Renly's armor removing his helm.
Loras prepares to present Margaery to Joffrey.
Those who played a key role in securing Joffrey's victory are summoned to the Throne room to receive the King's gratitude, and a reward of their choosing. Loras requests that Houses Tyrell and Baratheon be merged via marriage between his sister Margaery and Joffrey, to which Joffrey consents, after being "persuaded" by the small council that his engagement to Sansa Stark is no longer necessary or desirable.
Loras and Margaery host Joffrey and Cersei for supper, where they discuss adapting to life in King's Landing. When Cersei criticizes Margaery's recent goodwill visit to Flea Bottom, Loras waxes poetic about his sister's charitable work in the Reach. Joffrey seems placated by Loras's words; Cersei is not, whose enmity is increased when Margaery states that Tyrell blood runs warm (implying Cersei is cold-blooded in nature).
Some days later, Margaery has Loras call on and escort Lady Sansa to a meeting with her and their grandmother, the Lady Olenna. During their walk, Sansa tries to remind Loras of their first meeting at the Hand's Tourney many months before. Although Loras has clearly forgotten about it, he plays along to avoid insulting her. He takes his leave when Margaery meets them in the gardens. A few moments later, Olenna reminds Margaery and Sansa that Loras excels in his youth and ability to joust, but is not a wise man (which was evident in his support of Renly's claim). However, realizing that Petyr Baelish is closing in on Sansa and that she, as the only heir of House Stark should her brother Robb lose the war and die as a result, is the key to the North, Olenna, at the suggestion of Varys, directs Margaery to offer Loras's hand in marriage to Sansa.
Olyvar, under Littlefinger's instructions, flirts with Loras.
Apparently willing to go along with the plan, Loras invites Sansa to watch him spar, although out of earshot he laments that he doesn't have a real challenge. One of his new squires, Olyvar, states that he would like to see Loras spar with a worthy opponent. Away from prying eyes, Loras and Olyvar have an extended sexual encounter. Loras asks how Olyvar realized that he preferred male company as even his intended bride has no idea of his proclivities. Olyvar assures him that the situation is actually more common than is typically realized.
Loras does not know that Olyvar is actually a spy working for Littlefinger, who subsequently tells him about Loras' engagement to Sansa. This information is then passed on to Cersei, who informs Tywin. Tywin then decides to foil the Tyrells and their growing influence by forcing Sansa to become betrothed to Tyrion Lannister and Loras to be betrothed to Cersei.
Sansa attempts to flirt with Loras.
Loras and Sansa spend more time together in the following weeks, not yet aware of the new Lannister marriage plans. Loras says he has always wanted a big wedding with lots of guests and a good tournament, though he only seems to remember that there will be a bride when Sansa gives him an expectant look. Sansa expresses her happiness and looks forward to moving to Highgarden. On this, Loras agrees with her, saying that King's Landing is "the most terrible place there is".
Loras attempts to speak with his betrothed.
Following this, Sansa and Loras are both made aware of the new arrangements, and both of them are extremely unhappy about the prospect of marrying into the Lannisters. Loras, as a person of rank in the Red Keep, later attends Sansa's wedding to Tyrion in the Great Sept of Baelor with his sister and grandmother. During the wedding feast, Olenna irritates him by reminding him that his sister is soon to be his stepdaughter-in-law and he storms out. Tyrion later sees him looking down from the upper gallery and raises his glass in sympathy. Loras sees Cersei miserably regarding Blackwater Bay out a window and tries to make small talk, but she rudely brushes him off.
Loras's grandmother, Olenna Tyrell congratulates Brienne of Tarth for besting her grandson during the melee at King Renly's camp, describing him as a "silly little boy".
Jaime threatens Loras during his sister's wedding feast.
Loras attends the wedding of his sister and King Joffrey; enjoying a brief flirtation with Oberyn Martell, before being confronted by Jaime Lannister over his engagement to Cersei. Jaime attempts to intimidate Loras into calling off the wedding, warning him that Cersei will murder him in his sleep, along with any children they may conceive together. Despite having no affection whatsoever for Cersei, Loras retorts to Jaime that he will never be able to marry Cersei either, clearly aware of Jaime and Cersei's relationship. He walks off, leaving Jaime nonplussed.
During the re-enactment of the War of the Five Kings by dwarfs in full costume, Loras looks on as the one dressed as Stannis (riding Melisandre) attacks another one dressed as Renly (riding a crude naked depiction of Loras). Following a sequence in which the Stannis dwarf stabs the Renly dwarf in an echo of the real murder, Loras, distraught and disgusted, leaves his seat on the dais altogether and doesn't return. Joffrey is later poisoned with the strangler, after which Tyrion is accused of his murder. Unknown to most, Olenna is the true perpetrator.
Loras silently watches as Tyrion defends himself.
Loras later attends the coronation of Tommen Baratheon. Cersei later agrees to marry Loras a fortnight after Tommen's wedding to Margaery, a month after the coronation. Along with his sister and father, Loras is later present at the Tyrion's trial, though it is unknown if he is aware that his grandmother was the one who poisoned Joffrey.
Loras continues his liaison with Olyvar.
During Tywin's funeral, Loras attempts to approach Cersei, speaking of how supposedly fearsome Tywin was, but Cersei ignores him and stalks off. One night, Loras is in bed with Olyvar, discussing the possibility of visiting Dorne or anywhere far away from King's Landing, when Margaery walks in. She admonishes Loras for making them late for supper with King Tommen. After Olyvar has taken his leave Margaery urges her brother to be more discreet especially in the Red Keep. Loras no longer cares as he knows everybody is whispering about him anyway. Loras is puzzled by Margaery's relaxed attitude, as Tywin's death means Cersei won't be forced to marry Loras and be sent off with him to Highgarden, which means Margaery will have to contend with her mother-in-law at the capital. Margaery implies that may not be the case.
Loras is arrested by the Faith Militant.
Loras is present during the wedding ceremony of Tommen Baratheon and his sister Margaery. During a sparring session, Loras is seized by Lancel Lannister and the Faith Militant. Lancel tells Loras that he has "broken the Laws of Gods and Men". Margaery deduces that Loras's arrest was partly Cersei's doing in order to undermine the new queen. Tommen later attempts to have Loras released by confronting his mother then trying to speak to the High Sparrow, but neither endeavor bears any fruit, prompting Margaery to write at once to Olenna.
During his holy inquest by the Faith, a somewhat disheveled Loras is interrogated by the High Sparrow about his relationship with Renly. Loras denies he was Renly's lover, telling the High Sparrow they were merely best friends, but cannot look him in the eye. He also denies having lain with any other man. Margaery, when asked to testify, backs her brother up.
Loras attempts to attack Olyvar.
The High Sparrow then calls forth a surprise witness, to Loras's horror: Olyvar, who, on Cersei's instructions, informs the court that he and Loras were sexually involved, although he slightly misrepresents the situation by making it seem like Loras pursued him first, when Olyvar was actually the one who was asked by Littlefinger to seek out Loras and seduce him as a way to get information on the Tyrells. Loras is furious and attempts to attack Olyvar but is restrained. This leads to Margaery's arrest for perjury and a full trial before the gods for Loras.
Margaery is permitted to visit Loras in prison. He is worn out and beaten down by the Faith Militant's treatment of him. Margaery tries to get him to stand up for himself and calls him the future of the Tyrells, but Loras states that he just wants his imprisonment to end and wants to acquiesce to their demands. Loras begins to sob uncontrollably, and his sister hugs him close to her chest. On the morning of his trial, a shivering Loras is shown huddled on the floor of his cell, repeating lines under his breath, suggesting he has been told what to say in advance and is trying to memorize it. He is taken from his cell by members of the Faith Militant before being bathed, shaven and having his hair cut off.  He is then brought before the High Sparrow and the assembled nobles in the Great Sept of Baelor. Loras states that a trial won't be necessary, because he wishes to plead guilty to all accusations laid against him.
Loras confesses before the High Sparrow.
He confesses to having lain with other men, including Renly, and his voice breaks with emotion as he says Renly's name, following which the High Sparrow turns and looks at Margaery in a very pointed way. Loras' emotion at saying Renly's name, and the High Sparrow looking at Margaery in a displeased way as a result, suggests that Loras has not actually been brainwashed into believing his sexuality and his relationship with Renly were wrong, but that he has been obliged to pretend this is the case in order to persuade the High Sparrow to let him out of prison.
The High Sparrow's glance at Margaery suggests that she told him Loras had genuinely converted, but that Loras' emotion in mentioning Renly has made the High Sparrow skeptical that this is the case. However, Loras hastily regathers himself, and as he lists a number of other things the Faith considers to be crimes, the High Sparrow seems more convinced again.
A recently mutilated Loras huddles close to his sister, second before his death.
As part of the confession and plea to be given mercy, Loras has to agree to join the Faith Militant and renounce his inheritance. The seven pointed star is then carved into his forehead by Brother Lancel as his sister and father look on in horror. When Cersei doesn't show up to her own trial, Margaery realizes that something is seriously amiss. She attempts to lead her brother to safety, but the Sparrows prevent this, and he dies alongside his sister and father when Cersei burns the Great Sept to the ground.
Before the start of the War of the Five Kings, and later his arrest and imprisonment by the Faith Militant, Loras led a carefree life as a tourney knight. A prodigiously skilled warrior and an extremely popular young man, he is shown to be gracious towards everyone around him and grateful whenever someone does him a favor. He was quick to thank Sandor Clegane when the latter saved Loras's life from his ferocious brother, Gregor, and showed his appreciation by declaring him champion without having a joust. However, Loras was also rather spoiled to a fault, which could have arguably played a role in his downfall. Renly pointed this out to Loras by the expensive and extravagant suit of armor that his father procured for him to wear at tournaments. Loras also shows a hint of his grandmother's influence when he mocked Robb Stark for "hiding behind his mother's skirts" as opposed to appearing in person to treat with Renly and Jaime Lannister for his incest when the latter tried to intimidate Loras into calling off his engagement to Cersei Lannister.
Loras thought that Renly Baratheon would have been a wonderful king because he didn't enjoy killing like Robert did, and he was extremely popular unlike Stannis. When Renly was murdered, Loras correctly deduced it was Stannis and furiously vowed that he would personally execute the man, overlooking the fact that the odds were against him being able to do so. One of Loras's weaknesses was he did not always think through the risks of his actions, and it took much persuasion by Margaery to get him to back off from confronting Stannis immediately and instead wait for a better moment to seek revenge. Loras takes further risks in later seasons when he becomes involved with Olyvar, despite Margaery's warnings that people could find out about it, and gave little thought to the possibility that their relationship might be used against him. Due to the protection afforded him all his life as the heir to Highgarden, Loras reacted with anger and disbelief when Lancel Lannister and the Faith Militant arrested him. Only when the Sparrows call Olyvar forward to testify at the inquest does Loras begin to show genuine fear that he will be betrayed, which occurs when Olyvar tells the High Sparrow about their past relationship. His subsequent imprisonment by the Faith Militant demoralized Loras to the point that he was willing to publicly renounce all he once held dear and humble himself before the High Sparrow in order to be released.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Loras is a handsome warrior, described as having lazy brown curls and eyes of liquid gold, famed for his chivalry, honor, and skill at arms with sword and morningstar, and particularly his abilities in the joust, where he has even managed to defeat Jaime on several occasions despite his youth, being still only 16 years old.
Loras is a loyal member of his family and is close to his sister Margaery and his older brothers Willas and Garlan. His personal coat of arms is three golden roses on green, to reflect his status as a third son. The elaborate suits of armor he wears are not only engraved, but have enamel flowers in a variety of colors painted on them, or are encrusted with gemstones like sapphires, and he wears cloaks made of woven roses.
Loras's elder brothers Willas and Garlan have been omitted from the TV series (though they were initially included in the Tyrell family tree in the HBO Viewers' Guide) and thus, Loras is stated to be the sole male heir to Highgarden.
Loras ranks as one of the most skilled knights and warriors in Westeros, in the top tier alongside Jaime, the Mountain, and Barristan Selmy, although Clegane's prowess relies more on his brute strength than skill with a sword, while Barristan is self-admittedly not as young and quick as he used to be. In contrast, Loras is young and not quite as experienced as Jaime yet, though Jaime himself says that he thinks that one day Loras's skill might equal his own.
In the novels, the relationship between Loras and Renly is more subtly depicted than in the TV series, with only guarded references to the relationship in the interactions between other characters. When Stannis is told that Margaery came to Renly's bed a maiden, he remarks that in Renly's bed she'll die one. When Loras's name is brought up, someone says, "Oh, Renly's little rose" (referring to the sigil of House Tyrell). Loras is seen going into Renly's tent, but it is not explicitly stated that they are lovers. However, George R.R. Martin has later independently confirmed that they were involved in a relationship. Loras and Renly were in a relationship for many years, but were publicly hiding their homosexuality due to the social repercussions this would have with the dominant religion of Westeros, the Faith of the Seven. It isn't exactly clear how widely Renly's relationship with Loras was known about, or even to what extent their friends and family knew (Robert, Stannis, etc.) In the books, Littlefinger and Varys seem to know (due to their spy rings), and even Jaime makes an off-hand comment about it at one point. When directly asked how widely Renly's relationship with Loras was known about (citing that even Jaime knew), Martin's only response was "what do you think?"
Martin has pointed out in the behind-the-scenes featurettes for the TV series that as a youthful, attractive, and skilled tournament knight, Loras is essentially the "teen heartthrob" of Westeros that all the young noble ladies in the Seven Kingdoms swoon over, as it is not publicly known that he is a homosexual.
When Gregor Clegane is found to be terrorizing the Riverlands, Loras volunteers to lead the forces that Eddard Stark sends to bring him to justice. Eddard, believing him too young, says that Loras would be after vengeance, not justice (because Ser Gregor had tried to kill him at the Hand's Tournament), so he sends Beric Dondarrion instead. Varys tells Eddard that he should have sent Loras because he was so keen to go, and if you are going to make an enemy of the Lannisters, it would be wise to make a friend of the Tyrells.
When Renly declares himself king, he forms his own rival Kingsguard which he calls the "Rainbow Guard", enjoying the opportunity to play with the pageantry of forming a new knightly order. The number seven is holy in the Faith of the Seven, and rainbows are one of its symbols. This name change wasn't used in the TV series, where it is simply referred to as "Renly's Kingsguard". Each member of the Rainbow Guard represented a specific color (such as "Brienne the Blue" etc.), and wore armor and clothing that matched each color. Ser Loras was the Lord Commander of Renly's Rainbow Guard, and in this position he didn't represent a specific color like the other six members (therefore no one stood for indigo).
When Renly is murdered, Brienne does not kill Ser Robar Royce and Ser Emmon Cuy. When they come into the tent and confront Brienne, Emmon attacks her, but Catelyn swears to Robar that Brienne is innocent. Robar tells Catelyn to get Brienne away, and he holds off Emmon and some men at arms. When Loras arrives to find Renly dead, in his grief and rages he kills Emmon and Robar for their failure to protect Renly and allowing Brienne to escape. Later, he regrets doing this, as they were his friends, and he eventually realizes that Stannis, not Brienne, was responsible. In the series, it is Margaery who talks of blaming Brienne, but Loras, knowing how devoted Brienne was to Renly, says, "I don't believe that. YOU don't believe that."
Loras does not wear Renly's armor in the Battle of the Blackwater in the book. His brother Garlan does this, and later asks Joffrey to take Margaery as his queen (Margaery still being in the Reach). Seeing him in Renly's armor, many soldiers believed him to be Renly's ghost returned, and as they were once sworn to Renly, they changed sides in the midst of the battle. When Joffrey asks Loras what reward he desires for his part in the battle, Loras asks for a place on Joffrey's Kingsguard. This was primarily a calculated move so that Loras would always be on hand to protect Margaery from Joffrey. It also provided Loras with a convenient way to avoid marriage, something he had no taste for, given his orientation and his grief.
When Jaime and Brienne return to King's Landing, Loras and Meryn Trant encounter them at the entrance to the Red Keep. Loras accuses Brienne of Renly's death and is ready to fight her. He does not believe her story about Stannis's shadow. Jaime intervenes and demands Loras to stop. Loras does not comply. Jaime grabs him and says harshly, "Now sheathe your bloody sword, or I'll take it from you and shove it up some place even Renly never found." Jaime also warns Loras that Brienne is formidable, and were he to duel her, "it's like to be your corpse we carry out." Loras obeys grudgingly. Later, Jaime talks with Loras and makes him realize that Brienne is innocent. In the TV series, Brienne visits not Loras, but Margaery, who believes her but advises her to keep quiet.
When Jaime interviews Loras, the youth's arrogance and overconfidence makes him think "He's me. I am speaking to myself, as I was, all cocksure arrogance and empty chivalry. This is what it does to you, to be too good too young". Jaime does not find the resemblance flattering.
Loras, who was not involved in the conspiracy to murder Joffrey, is certain that Sansa is the murderer, claiming that "My sister was drinking from that chalice as well. Sansa Stark was the only person in the hall who had reason to want Margaery dead, as well as the king. By poisoning the wedding cup, she could hope to kill both of them. And why did she run afterward, unless she was guilty?" Apparently, the fact that his sister was in danger makes Loras suspect the wrong person, as he wrongly suspected Brienne of killing the man he loved.
In the books, Loras is left deeply mourning the loss of his great love Renly, and famously swears that he will never love again, saying "When the sun has set, no candle can replace it." Several critics, including Westeros.org, were upset that Loras has sex with Olyvar on the show in "Kissed by Fire", because it seemed rather sudden, as if Renly's death did not deeply impact him. Writer Bryan Cogman, however, subsequently did an interview with Westeros.org, and specifically addressed this concern: changes in adaptation meant that Loras had to have sex with Olyvar, to let it slip that he would marry Sansa, as part of the plot mechanics of the Lannister/Tyrell rivalry. However, Cogman explained, his earlier drafts of the episode actually included longer scenes which made it explicitly clear that Loras is not finished mourning Renly. Rather, Loras was very depressed and lonely, and in effect "drowning his sorrows" by engaging in casual sex in the hope that it would make him feel better, but it ultimately made Loras feel more emotionally distraught and reminded of how much he misses Renly. Cogman lamented that "as we get closer to production, a lot of trims have to be made, and this scene was one where I had to do that." He acknowledged that cutting the scene gave the unintended impression that Loras was moving past Renly, when he actually isn't.
Loras has never declared in the novels that Renly was a traitor; it is highly unlikely he would ever make such statement, even to save his life, given his deep feelings to Renly.
Loras being arrested by the Faith Militant and charged with buggery is an invention of the TV series. Though Cersei does conspire to get rid of Loras, to her surprise and delight, he gives her the opportunity; not long after Euron Greyjoy's coronation as King of the Iron Islands, the ironborn start attacking the coastline of the Reach. Margaery and Loras both urge Cersei to recall the Redwyne fleet, commanded by one of their father's vassals and already laying siege to Dragonstone, Stannis Baratheon's last stronghold in Westeros, as it is the only naval force capable of battling the Iron Fleet; when Cersei (who secretly gloats over the Tyrells' distress) makes it plain she won't do so until the castle is back in royal hands, Loras requests Cersei to give him command of the siege, vowing to take the castle within a fortnight. Cersei delightfully agrees, hoping Loras will get killed due his rash nature. Loras takes Dragonstone, but at great cost: due to his rashness, victory has been needlessly bloodthirsty (about 1,000 Lannister soldiers have been killed), and Loras has been fatally injured by quarrels, maces, and boiling oil. Cersei draws a sadistic pleasure from telling the overwhelmed Margaery about her brother.
By the point the books reached, Loras somehow is still clinging to life.
According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Loras Tyrell" is pronounced "LOR-us TI-rul".
Histories & Lore:"Robert's Rebellion: Stannis Baratheon""House Tyrell""The Stormlands"
Renly Baratheon was the youngest of the three brothers of House Baratheon and Lord of Storm's End.
Following the deposition of House Targaryen, and subsequent ascension of his eldest brother, Robert, he was granted the title of Lord Paramount of the Stormlands, despite his youth. He also served as Master of Laws on Robert's Small Council, but abandoned the latter position when laying claim to the Iron Throne upon Robert's death.
Renly is the third and youngest son of Steffon and Cassana Baratheon. Steffon was the head of House Baratheon and Lord Paramount of the Stormlands. The Stormlands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Baratheon is one of the Great Houses of the realm. Renly has two older brothers Robert and Stannis. Their parents died when the boys were young and Robert inherited his father's titles. Robert led a rebellion against King Aerys II Targaryen, deposing and replacing him as the King of the Andals and the First Men. He made Renly the Lord of Storm's End following his victory. Renly was only a child during the civil war, so he did not fight.
At some point, Selwyn Tarth held a ball on Tarth in hopes of arranging a match for his daughter, Brienne. However, many of the suitors feigned attraction to Brienne. She was alerted of this when she spotted some of them laughing. In hopes of saving her reputation, Renly took Brienne in his arms and danced with her, leaving the suitors speechless, due to Renly's high status. From this point on, Brienne would be forever loyal to Renly.
Renly serves Robert as Master of Laws on the King's Small Council in King's Landing. He is fourth in line to the throne, behind his nephews Joffrey and Tommen and his older brother Stannis. Renly is popular at court because of his friendly manner and keen fashion sense.
Renly has been involved in a homosexual romance with Ser Loras Tyrell for many years. They must keep their love a secret because the dominant religion of the realm, the Faith of the Seven, considers homosexuality to be a sin, although many people are nonetheless aware of their relationship as something of an open secret.
Renly welcomes Ned to the Small Council.
Renly greets Eddard Stark, whom he knew when younger, upon his arrival at King's Landing. Renly is the only member of the Small Council whom Eddard greets warmly. Renly agrees with Eddard's assessment that his brother Robert's profligate spending is damaging the realm. Renly irritates Commander Janos Slynt by questioning his competence to command the City Watch if he cannot keep the peace. Nonetheless, Ned gives Slynt the resources he requires.
Renly meets Loras's gaze.
Renly bets on his (notoriously known) secret lover, Ser Loras Tyrell, to win a joust against Ser Gregor Clegane. He wins a significant sum of money from Littlefinger, then they mock each other. Renly asks Littlefinger if he has a friend; Littlefinger retorts by asking when Renly will be having his friend, pointing at Loras. Later, in the Small Council, Renly supports Robert's proposed assassination of Daenerys Targaryen following news of her pregnancy by Khal Drogo.
Loras inspires confidence in Renly.
Loras suggests that Renly claim the Iron Throne for himself and offers the support of the rich and powerful House Tyrell. Renly points out that he is fourth in line to the throne, behind his two nephews and his older brother, Stannis. Loras counters that Robert claimed the throne through strength of arms alone and asserts that the realm will not follow Joffrey because he is a monster, Tommen because he is too young, or Stannis who "has the personality of a lobster".
Renly is riled by Robert's assessment of the past.
Renly goes hunting with Robert and his retinue. He quarrels with Robert over his glorification of warfare and Robert's needling him about how many girls he has slept with; in Robert's words "simpler times" which were in fact more bloody than he is willing to admit. Renly calls him a fool and remarks that the past had its share of violence that Robert is conveniently ignoring. Renly storms off, leaving Ser Barristan to look on concerned, as Lancel keeps up King Robert's wine supply on Cersei's orders. This causes Robert to reel from his excessive consumption of wine, and subsequently, he is later fatally gored by a wild boar.
As Robert lays dying Renly suggests to Eddard that they take Joffrey prisoner and hold him hostage to neutralize House Lannister and allow Renly to seize the throne. Eddard believes this to be treason, he instead supports Stannis' claim to the throne. Eddard says he will not dishonor Robert's final hours by taking children prisoner and shedding blood in the castle. Later, Eddard hears from Varys that Renly and Loras have fled the city with some fifty retainers. At the Lannister camp, Kevan reports that both Renly and Stannis have laid claim to the throne. Elsewhere, Robb Stark rejects Jonos Bracken's suggestion they side with Renly and is instead declared King in the North by his bannermen.
Before the Battle of Oxcross, two Lannister sentries argue who is the greatest swordsman in Westeros. Rennick jokes that Ser Loras Tyrell can't be a great swordsman as he has been "stabbing" Renly Baratheon for years and Renly's not dead.
Renly is crowned King with the support of the powerful House Tyrell of Highgarden. He gathers an army of 100,000 men from across the Reach and the Stormlands. He solidifies his alliance with House Tyrell by marrying Margaery Tyrell, the sister of his lover Loras Tyrell.
For his personal sigil, Renly altered the original colors of the sigil of House Baratheon. Instead of the black crowned stag on a yellow field, Renly's banner displays a golden crowned stag on a field of green, a nod to the color scheme of his new wife's powerful family, House Tyrell. He is known as "The King in Highgarden" because of the alliance.
While Renly intended to eventually march on King's Landing, he was in no great hurry, content to let Robb Stark continue bleeding the Lannisters in the Riverlands. Time was largely on Renly's side, and he could afford to wait longer to assemble as large an army as possible before engaging in the war. Indirectly, however, Renly's faction was adversely affecting the Lannister position simply by closing off the shipment of foodstuffs from the fertile Tyrell-held lands of the Reach to King's Landing. Already overburdened with war refugees, this eventually produced starvation-level conditions among the poor of the capital city, leading to the Riot of King's Landing. Further, the simple existence of Renly's army in the south damaged the Lannister strategic position in the war: Tywin Lannister could not commit all of his forces to marching against Robb Stark at Riverrun or in the Westerlands, without leaving King's Landing undefended from attack by Renly. Instead, Tywin was forced to leave the bulk of his forces at Harrenhal, mid-way between Robb in the north and Renly in the south, to react against whichever of them moved on King's Landing first.
Renly celebrates the tournament with Margaery.
Renly camps his growing army near Storm's End in the Stormlands, and throws a tournament for his men. Renly and his new Queen watch from a wooden dais. Margaery stands and cheers on her brother Loras as he disarms his opponent. His rival manages to step under a swing of his great axe and knock him off his feet. Loras yields when his opponent lifts his visor and holds a knife close to his face.
Renly feigns a happy marriage to Margaery.
Margaery sinks back into her seat. Renly congratulates the combatants as they stand and calls the winner forward. He commands them to stand and remove their helm. The crowd are shocked when the fighter is revealed to be a woman; Brienne of Tarth. Renly tells her that she is everything that her father promised. Margaery says that Loras fought valiantly and Renly agrees with her. He names Brienne champion and offers to grant anything that she requests. Brienne asks to join his Kingsguard and he accepts.
Renly and Margaery greet Catelyn Stark.
Colen of Greenpools announces the arrival Catelyn Stark. Catelyn modifies his mention of Robb, asserting his position as King in the North. Renly introduces Margaery, who offers her condolences on the death of Eddard. Catelyn says that she is kind and Renly promises to avenge the death, drawing cheers from his men. Catelyn accepts the pledge and calls Renly "My Lord". Brienne corrects her, saying that she should call Renly "Your Grace" and kneel when speaking to him.
Renly waives the formality and calls Catelyn an honored guest. Loras interrupts to ask if Robb has marched against Tywin Lannister yet. Catelyn denies knowing Robb's strategy and says that she would not divulge it to them if she did. Loras says that Robb should have attended rather than sending his mother. Catelyn retorts that Robb is fighting a war rather than playing at one. Renly laughs off the barb and invites Catelyn to walk with him.
Renly dismisses Catelyn and Brienne.
Renly takes Catelyn on a tour of his camp. He stops to greet Gerald, who is recovering from being injured by a horse. He is careful to mention the vast size of his force, over 100,000 men. Catelyn warns him to take the war more seriously, saying that his men are the knights of summer and winter is coming. He ends the tour by asking Brienne to show Catelyn to a tent that he has assigned her, before dismissing her. He says that he is going to pray, alone.
Renly attempts to mollify Loras.
Renly and Loras kiss passionately inside Renly's tent. Renly undresses his lover and notes his badly bruised chest before kissing the marks. Loras stops him and complains about Brienne's appointment to the Kingsguard being a further humiliation after she bested him in the tournament. Renly cites Brienne's devotion and then realizes that Loras is jealous. Loras denies jealousy, mocking her as "Brienne the beauty", a nickname Brienne has been condescended with since adolescence.
Loras reminds Renly of his marriage to Margaery.
Renly begins to undo Loras' britches, saying that he will make it up to him. Loras stops him and says that he must devote his attentions to another Tyrell that night. He reminds Renly of his responsibilities to their alliance and warns him that his vassals are gossiping about his bride still being a virgin two weeks after their marriage. Renly is disbelieving of Margaery's virginity and Loras says that she is still officially a virgin before going to fetch her.
Margaery attempts to satisfy Renly.
Renly pours himself wine as he waits. When Margaery enters he warns her that he may have drunk too much. She says it is his right as a king and he compliments her gown. She says she is unsure how she likes it as a pretext to take it off. Renly says that she does not need the gown and she leans in to kiss him. He says that beauty concealed can be more desired but she silences him and persists despite his reluctance. She reaches for his crotch and he blames the wine for his lack of arousal. She offers to take care of it and unlaces his britches. He breaks off their kiss and apologizes.
She offers to ask Loras to come in and help. He is stunned at her forwardness. She says that she could turn over so that Renly can pretend that she is Loras if he would prefer. He claims to not understand what she means. She smiles and says that he can be open with her and should save his lies for court because he will need a lot of them. She sits next to him on their bed and says that their enemies will be thwarted if he gets her pregnant. She offers him the choice of how he would like to do it; either with her alone or with her and Loras. She says that he can choose because he is a king and kisses him on the cheek.
Petyr Baelish arrives at Renly’s camp in the Stormlands. Renly greets him as his “favorite whoremonger” and sarcastically hopes that he has not been waiting long. Petyr follows Renly into his tent and Renly criticizes his lack of loyalty. Petyr says that he is a practical man and Renly says that he dislikes Petyr and demands to know why he is there. Petyr looks to Brienne and Renly says that her loyalty comes without charge and she can be trusted. Petyr says that Renly still has friends at court who think Eddard Stark was mistaken in not supporting Renly’s claim. Renly says that Petyr is trying to protect himself in the face of his inevitable victory. Petyr offers to open the gates of King’s Landing to Renly.
Renly attends a parley with Stannis.
Stannis meets Renly on the coast of the Stormlands to parley. Stannis is accompanied by Melisandre, an Asshai'i priestess, Ser Davos Seaworth and several guards. Renly brings Catelyn, Brienne and Loras along with his own guards. Stannis remarks on Catelyn’s presence and she says that she had not expected to be there. Renly wonders if it is really Stannis and feigns confusion over his banner. Renly jokes that the battle would be confusing if they both used the same one. Renly wonders why Stannis’s version of the stag is aflame.
Renly mocks Stannis's belief in the Lord of Light.
Melisandre explains that Stannis has taken the fiery heart of the Lord of Light for his sigil. Renly says that she must be the fire priestess he has heard so much about and jokes that he now knows why Stannis found religion late in life. Stannis warns his brother to watch his tongue. Renly says that he is relieved that Stannis is not really a fanatic and calls him charmless, rigid and a bore but not godly. Melisandre admonishes Renly to kneel before the Lord’s chosen and says that Stannis was born amidst salt and smoke. Renly jokes that she makes Stannis sound like a ham.
Stannis again warns his brother. Catelyn admonishes them to stop bickering and remember that they are brothers. Stannis counters that he would expect her to support his claim as Eddard did. He says that Eddard died for his integrity yet she sits beside a pretender. She says that they share a common enemy and Stannis retorts that the Iron Throne is his by right and that all who deny it are his enemies, to which Renly quips that every living Westerosi, from the Wall to Dorne denies his kingship.
Renly says that no-one wants Stannis for their king. Renly says that Stannis never wanted friends but that a man without friends is a man without power. Stannis says that he will give Renly the night to reconsider for the sake of their mother. He offers to restore Renly to his seat on the council and to name him as his heir until he has a son if he strikes his banners; otherwise he will destroy Renly. Renly reminds Stannis of his numerous supporters and says that they will make him king. Stannis rides away as Melisandre warns Renly to look to his sins because "the night is dark and full of terrors." Renly asks if his companions can believe that he loved Stannis once as he leads them away.
Renly compromises with Catelyn.
Catelyn meets with Renly in his command tent. Two of his kingsguard are outside while Brienne stands watch inside the tent. Renly has Catelyn swear that her son Robb has no interest in challenging him for the Iron Throne. Renly drinks from a goblet thoughtfully and announces that he sees no reason for hostility between them. He offers his terms; Robb can retain the title of King in the North, and control of all lands north of Moat Cailin, but must swear fealty to Renly as Eddard did to Robert eighteen years earlier.
Catelyn is hesitant and Renly reminds her that Robert and Eddard’s friendship held the Seven Kingdoms together. Catelyn asks what he offers in return for Robb’s loyalty. Renly says that he will destroy Stannis’s army and then Baratheon and Stark will fight their common enemy together as they have done many times in the past. Renly stands before a mirror and Brienne helps him out of his cloak. Catelyn beseeches him to reconsider negotiating with Stannis. Renly reminds Catelyn of his brother’s rigidity, refusing to attempt further debate with him. He asks her to take his terms to Robb and says that he sees them as natural allies and hopes that Robb feels the same. He suggests that acting together they could end the war in a fortnight.
Renly is assassinated.
An unnatural gust parts the tents opening and black smoke rushes inside. Catelyn and Brienne are stunned while Renly watches transfixed in his mirror. The smoke coalesces into a human shape and stabs Renly through the chest. In the mirror its face resembles Stannis. The smoke dissipates and Renly collapses forward. Brienne wails and catches him as he slides to the ground dead. Brienne is initially blamed for Renly's death by Ser Robar Royce and Emmon Cuy of his Kingsguard. Brienne kills both men while defending herself against their accusations.
Renly lies dead.
Brienne is still blamed by many for Renly's murder, so she flees the camp with Catelyn. Renly's body is laid on a slab while Loras grieves and vows to kill Stannis for this, as he doesn't believe Brienne is responsible. Littlefinger and Margaery persuade him to leave for Highgarden, as he cannot take revenge if he is dead. Renly's forces largely swear fealty to Stannis when he arrives the next day. House Tyrell lead their troops back to Highgarden.
As Brienne escorts Jaime Lannister back to King's Landing at the behest of Catelyn Stark in an attempt to exchange him for her daughters, he inquires as to how she came to be in Lady Catelyn's service. With minimal probing, he quickly realizes she had originally pledged for Renly. Jaime then proceeds to make cruel japes at Brienne for loving Renly whose "proclivities were the worst kept secret at court." This prompts Brienne to nearly erupt with fury but Jaime defuses the situation by saying he doesn't blame Renly for his preferences nor Brienne for loving him, saying, "We don't get to choose who we love."
Later, when the two of them are sharing a communal bath (against Brienne's wishes), Jaime, who has since lost his sword hand, reminds her of the vow she made to deliver him to King's Landing in one piece. He agitates her for failing to protect Renly but quickly apologizes upon gauging her reaction. Jaime then regales Brienne with what really happened when he slew the Mad King, and asks her if she would have kept her oath if Renly had commanded her to do the same things as Aerys did, but Brienne is too stunned by Jaime's story to answer.
Meanwhile, over in Dragonstone, Stannis makes preparations to have Robert's bastard son Gendry sacrificed as part of his plan to win the Iron Throne. His Hand Davos Seaworth tries to dissuade him from doing so by reminding him that Gendry shares his blood, to which Stannis replies, "So did Renly." Although Davos doesn't justify his king's fratricide, he shows his loyalty to Stannis stating that Renly wronged him when he declared himself king ahead of Stannis.
Several weeks after their arrival in King's Landing, Brienne visits Margaery and describes what she saw and how the shadow had Stannis's face; she assures Margaery that she will find a way to avenge their king. Later, at the wedding feast of Margaery and Joffrey, the latter mistakes Brienne for the one who assassinated Renly, which Margaery quickly corrects.
During the wedding feast, a play also takes place in which the War of the Five Kings is acted out by dwarves, including a dwarf playing the role of Renly. Loras witnesses the play and is visibly upset by the way Renly is represented in it. Following a sequence in which the Renly dwarf is repeatedly stabbed by the Stannis dwarf, echoing the events of the real murder, Loras is so angry and distraught that he storms away from the event, knocking his chair over as he goes.
While traveling north to rescue Sansa Stark, Brienne tells Podrick Payne about her past with Renly. She reveals that as a young girl, her father held a ball and invited dozens of young lords in order to find a good match for her. Brienne was captivated by all the attention she was getting, but her happiness turned to embarrassment when Brienne realized they were all just toying with her. Before she could run away, Renly took Brienne into his arms and told her that those "nasty little shits aren't worth crying over" and danced with her. As Podrick starts to bring up Renly's homosexuality, Brienne somewhat irritably acknowledges that she knew Renly was only interested in men and that he was only being kind to her, but that still didn't stop her from loving him. She says that there is nothing more hateful than failing to protect the ones you love, and intends to avenge Renly by killing Stannis, whom she correctly believes played a role in Renly's murder after witnessing his death by a Shadow resembling Stannis.
Meanwhile, back in King's Landing, Renly's lover Loras is arrested by the Faith Militant on charges of buggery after being informed upon by Cersei. During his holy inquest by the Faith, the High Sparrow grills him about his relationship with Renly. Loras of course denies that he was ever Renly's lover, that they were merely friends and he was wrong to support his claim to the Iron Throne, adding that he fought for Joffrey at the Battle of the Blackwater. The High Sparrow points out that Loras was wearing Renly's armor at that battle, making his testimony sound less believable but Loras stands his ground, saying he never lay with Renly or any other men. His sister Margaery, who of course was also Renly's widow for a time, defends her brother when she is called upon to testify but this leads to her own arrest for perjury when the Faith bring forth the prostitute Olyvar, who truthfully tells them that about his own relationship with Loras.
Renly is finally avenged by Brienne following the Battle of Winterfell where Stannis's army is smashed by the forces of Roose Bolton. Brienne finds a wounded Stannis, sentences him to die and personally kills him after he acknowledges his role in Renly's murder.
After Brienne and Sansa Stark reach Castle Black, Brienne later confronts Davos Seaworth and Melisandre, and tells them that she was the one who killed Stannis after his confession about Renly's death, leaving the two of Stannis's former allies stunned.
During his trial held on the first day of the Festival of the Mother, Loras Tyrell confesses his sins to the High Sparrow and the other six judging septons, including sleeping with Renly, shocking the gathered crowd in the Great Sept of Baelor. This takes place just before the Sept of Baelor is destroyed with wildfire in a plot orchestrated by Cersei Lannister and Qyburn, killing all of those inside and nearby the Great Sept, including Renly's lover himself, Loras. The aftermath of this plot sees the death of King Tommen, thus rendering House Baratheon extinct as Renly, nor Stannis, left no heirs.
During a drinking game, Jaime correctly guesses that Brienne danced with Renly.
Renly was established to have an extremely strained relationship with his two brothers, Robert and Stannis. The long-ridiculed youngest brother, originally Renly saw no hope of ever becoming king as there were too many heirs with claims better than his for the Iron Throne. With inspiration from his lover Loras Tyrell, however, Renly arrogantly flouted the line of succession and declared himself king ahead of Stannis after Robert died. However, his strained relationship with his brothers didn't prevent him from complimenting Robert behind his back that he used to be good at killing and showing concern when he was mortally wounded by the boar. He expressed open disgust toward Littelinger, partly because of his betrayal of Robert, asking if his brother's body was even cold before he changed alliances. Renly also claimed to have once loved Stannis after their final encounter, making him the only brother to say as much about one of the others whereas Robert openly stated he never loved either of them. Stannis pretty much says the same about Robert but claims to grieve for Renly in a way after he murders him. However, Stannis does not show genuine remorse for the act until after he is defeated at the Battle of the Blackwater.
Unlike his other brothers, who undoubtedly would make bad kings but were skilled in battle; Robert, a fierce warrior but incompetent king, and Stannis a proven battle commander but unmerciful lord, Renly never raised a sword in combat. Adding to this, he used to become uneasy around violence and blood, throwing up when a knight was maimed after jousting and even after Loras cut him to prove a point, Renly was still squeamish and treated it as if it was a mortal wound. According to him, all he heard about from Robert was how he was never "tough" enough, and came to resent the idea that good soldiers automatically make good kings, which was seen when Ned Stark attempted to reinforce Stannis as the rightful heir. He disregarded the fact that a king, while having to be charismatic and peaceful, also had to be legitimately strong, which his brothers were on account of being respectively skilled warriors and commanders.
Despite his lackluster on the battlefield, Renly was skilled in politics. He became a member of Robert's Small Council while he was alive and forged a marriage alliance with House Tyrell to support his claim for the Throne, gaining more bannermen and strengthening his army by marrying Margaery Tyrell. At the same time however, the prospect of a marriage alliance was to create a line of children, which he was was unable to do on account of his homosexuality until Margaery reformed that their marriage was only on paper. Renly was patient; for all of his zeal to obtain the title of king he was capable of waiting until Robb Stark had weakened the forces in King's Landing and take control later on. He also had some understanding of warfare tactics and planned to take Joffrey hostage after learning of his true parentage to weaken House Lannister so there would be no opposition for his titles. He was also very receptive to an alliance with the Starks and the Tullys (as he sympathized with them over the execution of Ned Stark) although he made such an alliance conditional to them swearing fealty to him as King; unlike Stannis, however, he wisely did not threaten them with retribution for not submitting, recognizing that it was Joffrey's threats and killing of Ned that had made them rebel in the first place.
For all of his ambitions, Renly only attempted to assist his own claim and never neutralized those against him. He relied on Joffrey's illegitimacy, made aware by Stannis who also fought for the Iron Throne to support his right and never attempted to demoralize Stannis to his army even though, in the eyes of the Seven Kingdoms, Stannis possessed the most solid claim in comparison to Renly. He relied on his charisma and popularity for the support of his troops rather than propaganda, and disregarded the royal line of succession in favor of the rightful ruler being the best suited, which was automatically him in his opinion. Renly was also a tolerant man, as he allowed Brienne of Tarth to join his Kingsguard, whereas many scorned her for her gender and lack of virtue. In addition, Renly was legitimately kind to Brienne, saving her from scorn when they first met and comforting her, and voicing to Loras that he appreciated her devotion to him.
Scottish actor Sam Heughan auditioned for the role of Renly, as well as for the role of Loras and also a number of members of the Night's Watch. Heughan went on to star as Jamie Fraser in the live-action adaptation of Outlander, opposite Tobias Menzies, who played Edmure Tully. 
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Renly is "near twenty" when the events of the books begin. He is fifteen years younger than King Robert, whom he strongly resembles in appearance, charisma, and personality. He is the Lord Paramount of the Stormlands and the Lord of Storm's End, a source of friction between him and his brother Stannis, who holds the far colder, poorer and more isolated castle of Dragonstone in the King's name. Renly is tremendously friendly, open and honorable, but also has a tendency towards flippancy and not taking events seriously. His closest friend - and lover - at court is his former squire, Loras Tyrell, now a formidable knight.
The power grasping House Tyrell is trying to get Robert interested in Margaery. Renly on behalf of Loras has been helping them (he talks about this with Stannis in the negotiation of Storm's End, Stannis taunts him for taking Robert's leavings). In King's Landing, Renly shows Ned a picture of Margaery and tries to get Eddard to say she looks like Lyanna (she does not). Renly wants Robert to put Cersei aside to marry Margaery. Eddard is oblivious, thinking it's funny that a man who looks like a young Robert, Renly, has now imagined the woman he loves, Margaery, is a young Lyanna.
In the novels, the relationship between Loras and Renly is more subtly depicted than in the TV series, with only guarded references to the relationship in the interactions between other characters. This is largely due to the narrative mechanics: Renly, Loras, and Margaery are not POV characters in the first two books. The scenes at King Renly's army camp are told from Catelyn's POV, and she would not be privy to the details of Renly and Loras's relationship. However, author George R.R. Martin has independently confirmed that they were involved in a relationship. It isn't exactly clear how widely Renly's relationship with Loras was known about, or even to what extent his friends and family knew (Robert, etc.). In the negotiation scene with Stannis, Renly tells him that Margaery came to him a maiden, Stannis replies that in his bed, she will die one. Brienne is in love with Renly and cried at his wedding. Littlefinger and Varys seem to know (due to their spy rings), and even Jaime Lannister makes an off-hand comment about it at one point. When directly asked how widely Renly's relationship with Loras was known about (citing that even Jaime knew), George R.R. Martin's only response was "what do you think?"
Loras mentions at one point after Renly's death that he owned books with "drawings that would turn a septon blind," implying that he possessed quite an impressive collection of gay porn. From all evidence, though, it seems that Renly and Loras were monogamous and faithful to each other. Loras never said what happened to Renly's extensive book collection after he died.
Renly is described as possessing an uncanny physical resemblance to his older brother Robert when Robert was his age. Robert was considered quite an attractive man in his youth (before the stress of ruling led him to overeating and drinking). Renly is considered even more attractive. Sansa remarks that Renly is the most attractive man she has ever seen. In the first novel, A Game of Thrones, Renly is described as having green eyes. However, in the second novel, A Clash of Kings, he is described as having blue eyes. Author George R.R. Martin only noticed this error when fans pointed it out. Therefore, in a later book, Martin included a wink at his previous mistake by having a character recall that Renly had "blue-green" eyes, which looked blue or green depending on the light he was standing in. The matter is rendered moot in the TV series, as actor Gethin Anthony has brown eyes.
In the books, the way Renly regards Robb's coronation demonstrates very clearly the differences between him and Stannis: Stannis, blunt and tactless as ever, tells Catelyn "I am the rightful king, and your son no less a traitor than my brother here. His day will come as well" - thus ruining any chance of alliance with the Starks. Renly, on the other hand, acts diplomatically in that matter: he makes it clear to Catelyn that he won't let Robb secede the North from the authority of the Iron Throne, but he's willing to let him rule the North and the Riverlands, and even hold the title of King in the North - but he demands Robb to swear fealty to him, and accept him as his overlord.
Renly's manner of death is slightly different in the books. Instead of stabbing him in the chest, the shadow slits his throat, cutting through his steel gorget "like cheesecloth".
Both in the novels and the TV show, Renly is the first to die of the titular leaders in the War of the Five Kings.
Renly did not have a Kingsguard, but founded a new order, the Rainbow Guard, identical to the Kingsguard in almost every way. Each member had a different color that they wore, i.e. Robar the Red, Brienne the Blue, Emmon the Yellow.
In the books, when Stannis confronts Renly at their final parley, Renly flippantly offers him a peach, to emphasize that he doesn't take Stannis' threat seriously. The TV series removed this (though Renly does inspect an apple while meeting with Littlefinger in his tent in "Garden of Bones"). Fans were initially baffled at why such a seemingly inconsequential but cherished moment from the books was omitted. As writer Bryan Cogman later explained that what happened was:
In the third novel A Storm of Swords, the old woods witch known as the Ghost of High Hill speaks about Renly: "I dreamt I saw a shadow with a burning heart butchering a golden stag." Clearly this is a prophecy about Renly's death.
The assassination of Robert Baratheon was a pivotal event that preceded the War of the Five Kings.
The relationship between the Starks and the Lannisters, which has never been friendly, becomes hostile due to the kidnapping of Tyrion by Catelyn; Jaime confronts Eddard about the kidnapping, leading to a bloody brawl. Robert orders Ned to have Tyrion freed and to make peace with Jaime. Cersei is filled with contempt toward Robert for treating the situation so meekly and refusing to punish the Starks. Instead of using his authority to defuse the hostility between the houses, Robert leaves the capital to hunt in the kingswood.
As revealed later, Cersei comes up with a plan to dispose of Robert: she orders her henchman/lover Lancel, Robert's squire, to give Robert plenty of wine in order to dull his senses and slow his reactions during the hunt.
Robert hunts in the Kingswood, accompanied by Renly Baratheon, Ser Barristan Selmy and Lancel. Lancel, obediently following Cersei's orders, keeps offering wine to Robert, who drinks a lot.
Cersei and Ned discuss her incestuous relationship.
In the meantime, Ned discovers why Jon Arryn was killed: he has found evidence which proved that Robert was not the father of Cersei's children, who were actually a product of incest between her and Jaime. Very foolishly, blinded by his self-righteousness and honor, Ned arranges a secret meeting with Cersei and reveals to her that he knows the secret about her children. Cersei does not deny the accusation; she openly expresses her hatred of Robert. Ned warns Cersei that he will tell Robert the truth, and that she and her children must get as far as they can. Cersei departs with a chilling warning: "When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die. There is no middle ground".
Not surprisingly, Cersei decides not to accept Ned's "generous" offer, which means giving up her power position and luxurious life, and becoming a fugitive vagabond.
Robert's last act as King.
Renly informs Ned that Robert has been injured by a boar at the hunt. Ned enters Robert's chambers. Robert, lying near death, admits that he drank too much wine. He orders all the present people to leave, except Ned. Robert instructs Ned to write a letter, naming him as the Lord Protector of the Realm, to rule until Joffrey comes of age. Ned does not write Joffrey's name but "the rightful heir". Robert regrets giving the order to kill Daenerys Targaryen, and orders Ned to stop her assassination if it is not too late. Robert also instructs Ned to help Joffrey to become a better man than himself. Ned promises to honor Robert's memory.
Ser Barristan tells Ned and Varys that Robert was reeling from the wine. Varys asks Ser Barristan who gave Robert the wine; Ser Barristan says it was Lancel. Varys comments sarcastically "Such a dutiful boy to make sure his Grace did not lack refreshment. I do hope the poor lad does not blame himself".
In private, Renly advises Ned to take Joffrey into their custody; he offers Ned a hundred soldiers for that purpose. Ned refuses to dishonor Robert's last hours by shedding blood in the Red Keep and taking frightened children hostage. Renly suggests that he could make a good king, but Ned sharply points out that Stannis is Renly's older brother and the rightful heir. Renly tries (in vain) to convince Ned that every moment he delays gives Cersei another moment to prepare, and by the time Robert dies, it will be too late for them to act.
Ned writes a letter to Stannis about his findings and instructs Tomard to deliver it to Dragonstone. Later, Ned arranges with the treacherous Littlefinger to enlist the City Watch to his cause, not knowing that he has only sealed his fate.
Soon afterwards, the Royal Steward informs Ned that Robert has died, and that he has been summoned to the throne room by the new "King Joffrey".
Renly's warning to Ned proves to be correct; as soon as Robert dies, Cersei does not waste time, but immediately sets the stage for Joffrey's coronation. Ned's attempt to foil her results in a massacre and his imprisonment in a Black Cell.
Varys visits Ned in his cell in the dungeons. He is incredulous that Ned warned Cersei what he was going to do. Ned says he wanted to extend mercy to Cersei's children, whom Robert would have killed if he'd known the truth. Varys bluntly tells Ned that his mercy is what killed King Robert, to Ned's shame.
Joffrey eventually has Ned executed, setting the stage for the War of the Five Kings.
A singer named Marillion composes and performs a satire song about Robert and the boar, which implies that Cersei is Robert's true killer. At Joffrey's order, Ser Ilyn Payne cuts out his tongue.
At Qarth, Xaro Xhoan Daxos tells Daenerys about Robert's death. She gapes in shock.
At Tywin's funeral, Lancel, who has become pious, approaches Cersei and asks for her forgiveness for his sins, among them his part in Robert's death; Cersei taunts Lancel and pretends she has no idea what he is talking about.
Lancel confesses to his crimes to the High Sparrow. Based on the confession, Cersei is arrested and charged with various crimes, among them Robert's murder, which she furiously denies.
Long afterwards, in Braavos, Robert's death is portrayed in the play The Bloody Hand in a very ridiculous manner, much to the amusement of the audience (including Arya).
While Septa Unella is at her mercy, Cersei confesses that she did indeed kill Robert, a sin that Cersei had previously been accused of while in custody of the Faith Militant.
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the assassination occurs about the same, but the background and the aftermath are significantly different. There is no point-of-view depiction of the hunt, since neither Robert nor any of his escorts are POV characters.
Of all the schemes that Cersei has ever come up with in the novels, the assassination of Robert is the only one which fully succeeds.
Similarly to the show, in the books it is unclear when Cersei makes her move to kill Robert, before or after her conversation with Ned. Based on Varys's explanation, the assassination might have occurred either way, regardless of Ned's ultimatum.
The assassination is preceded by at least one unsuccessful attempt of Cersei to have Robert killed: during the Tourney of the Hand, Cersei prompts Robert to participate in the mêlée contest, using reverse psychology, by forbidding him to - in the presence of his brother, his knights and half the court. Robert falls for the trick and insists on participating; eventually Ned dissuades him, though.[N 2] Later, Varys tells Ned that the Lannisters sought to kill Robert during the mêlée; among the forty participants they had a henchman who would have killed Robert, making it look like an "unfortunate accident". Ned intends to tell that to Robert, but Varys dissuades him, pointing out that they have no evidence to support such a serious accusation; he warns Ned that it is just a matter of time before the Lannisters make another attempt on Robert's life.
Although Ned is aware that Robert is in danger, he does not tell him about the aforementioned attempt, nor does he take any steps to protect Robert from harm. Thus Ned's inaction makes him partly responsible for Robert's death.
In addition to Renly, Lancel and Ser Barristan, Robert is accompanied by many more people, among them: Joffrey, the Hound, Ser Balon Swann and Lord Yohn Royce; most of those (including Joffrey and the Hound) return to King's Landing before the fatal encounter with the boar.
While Robert is dying, he claims that the gods punished him for giving the order to kill Daenerys, and that he has been a wretched king, bad as Aerys.
When Varys visits Ned at his cell, he tells that he questioned Lancel, and the squire admitted Cersei had given him the wineskins. Similarly to the show, Varys blames Ned that it was not the wine that caused Robert's death, but the mercy Ned offered Cersei. Varys also reveals that if the boar had not injured Robert - he would have been killed from a fall from a horse, the bite of a wood adder, an arrow gone astray, etc. (namely that Cersei placed more henchmen at the wood). Varys, however, assures Ned that Robert's death was not entirely his fault: Cersei would not have waited long in any case, since Robert was becoming unruly, and she needed to be rid of him to free her hands to deal with his brothers.
Cersei might have had an additional motive to kill Robert: at that time, Loras and Renly sought to wed Margaery to Robert, and they were not too discreet about their intention; had they succeeded, House Tyrell would have gained political power at the expense of the Lannisters, and Cersei wouldn't sit quietly and allow that to happen.
In A Clash of Kings, Tyrion asks Cersei how she killed Robert. She answers nonchalantly: "He did that himself. All we did was help. When Lancel saw that Robert was going after boar, he gave him strong wine. His favorite sour red, but fortified, three times as potent as he was used to. The great stinking fool loved it. He could have stopped swilling it down any time he cared to, but no, he drained one skin and told Lancel to fetch another. The boar did the rest". Some time later, Tyrion confronts Lancel, accusing him of being Cersei's lover and assisting her to kill Robert. Lancel initially denies everything very feebly, but soon breaks and admits "The queen gave me the strong wine".
When Tyrion roughly interrogates Pycelle, the latter admits that he loathed Robert for being a wretched king, vain, drunken, and lecherous, and he would have finished Robert off had his injuries not been so fatal - but it was not necessary, since Robert was doomed.
While Daenerys is in Qarth, she is informed of Robert's death by a ship captain named Quhuru Mo, whom Jorah met on the docks. She is satisfied to hear that the man who sought to kill her is now dead, and inquires about the manner of his death. Quhuru Mo tells that Robert was torn by a monstrous boar whilst hunting in the kingswood; he also mentions contradicting rumors that he was betrayed by his queen, or by his brother, or by Ned Stark.
In A Storm of Swords, when Jaime speaks with Cersei about Robert's death, it leaves a bitter taste in his mouth; he muses "it should have been me who killed him, not Cersei", and tells Cersei that had he killed Robert - he could have wed her.
In A Feast for Crows, as a result of his near-death experience at the battle of the Blackwater, Lancel becomes pious and deeply regrets his past sins. He tells the High Septon about his affair with Cersei and his part in Robert's death, unintentionally condemning him to death; Cersei, who fears that Lancel has spilled the beans to the High Septon, orders her henchman Osney Kettleblack to kill the High Septon, and he does.
While Jaime is on his way to Riverrun, he visits Lancel at Darry. Lancel remorsefully tells Jaime what he told to the High Septon earlier about Cersei and Robert's death. The confession confirms what Tyrion told Jaime earlier about Cersei (that she sleeps with other men, among them Lancel), and makes Jaime realizes that she is responsible for both the deaths of Robert and the High Septon.
Based on the testimonies of Osney Kettleblack and Lancel, Cersei is charged with regicide (in addition to other crimes - high treason, fornication, adultery, incest, and deicide). She admits only the lighter accusations and denies the rest, among them Robert's murder.
In A Dance with Dragons, while watching a pitfighter named Barsena being torn apart by a boar, Daenerys wonders if the boar that killed Robert was also so fierce; for a moment, she almost feels sorry for Robert.
