For characters who at any time bore a Ring of Power.
All items (23)
Kindle eBook, NOOK eBook
The Nature of Middle-earth is a book of previously unpublished texts by J.R.R. Tolkien, compiled by Carl F. Hostetter, who had been sent the texts for publication by Christopher Tolkien in 2020. Addressing numerous topics on inner workings and close details of Tolkien's world of Arda, the book was published by HarperCollins and Mariner Books in September 2021.
It is the first publication to exclusively feature essays by J.R.R. Tolkien that all solely concern his Middle-earth legendarium.
A solicitation released by HarperCollins describes the book as the unofficial fourteenth volume of The History of Middle-earth, though it is to be noted the publication is fully approved by the Tolkien Estate. The full description is as follows:
A Special Deluxe Edition
Among the topics covered in The Nature of Middle-earth are fate and free will, the Valar's telepathy and the Ósanwe-kenta, Dwarven beards, how different races of Middle-earth age, the making of lembas bread, how Eru Ilúvatar was the source of all creativity, the lands and animals of Númenor, and many others. Much of the topics and details covered fittingly address the varying curiosities that Middle-earth fans acquired through the decades from reading The Hobbit and especially The Lord of the Rings, which Tolkien commented on in a 1956 letter to H. Cotton Minchin, expressing how different readers who wrote to him desired further information on Middle-earth's cultures, botany, music, the workings of Elvish languages, and other matters.
The Hobbit is the first published novel by J.R.R. Tolkien set in Middle-earth. The book was first published on September 21, 1937 and is set in the years 2941 to 2942 of the Third Age before the events of The Lord of the Rings. Initially intended as a standalone story for children, it was later realigned more into the Middle-earth legendarium by 1951, when a revised edition was released.
J.R.R. Tolkien wrote The Hobbit (as well as the first two books of The Lord of the Rings) during his time as a Fellow and Professor of Anglo-Saxon at Pembroke College of the University of Oxford in England. Tolkien recollected in a 1955 letter to W.H. Auden that The Hobbit began in the late 1920s when he was marking School Certificate papers and wrote the words "In a hole in the ground, there lived a hobbit" on the back of one of them. The Hobbit didn't go any further than that at the time, although in the following years he drew up Thrór's Map, outlining the geography of the tale. The story itself he wrote in the early 1930s, and it was eventually published because he lent it to the Rev. Mother of Cherwell Edge when she was sick with the flu, and while she had the manuscript it was seen by a former student who was employed in the office of Allen & Unwin, a British publishing house.
Dust cover of the first edition, illustrated by Tolkien himself
Tolkien introduced or mentioned characters and places that figured prominently in his legendarium, specifically Elrond and Gondolin, along with elements from Germanic legend. But the decision that the events of  The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings could belong to the same universe as The Silmarillion was made only after his initial success and the request by his publisher for a sequel.
Although a fairy tale, the book is both complex and sophisticated: it contains many names and words derived from Norse mythology, and central plot elements from the Beowulf epic, it makes use of Anglo-Saxon runes, information on calendars and moon phases, and detailed geographical descriptions that fit well with the accompanying maps.
Gandalf approaching Bag End, from an illustration by David Wenzel
Bilbo Baggins, a hobbit, is smoking in his porch-way at Bag End one day, when Gandalf the Wizard visits him. After a lengthy discussion, during which Bilbo uses the phrase "Good Morning" several times, Bilbo finds himself flustered.  He invites Gandalf to tea, and goes back inside his Hobbit-hole with a final "Good Morning".  Gandalf carves a secret mark on Bilbo's front door, which translated means "Burglar wants a good job, plenty of excitement and reasonable reward." Soon after, 13 Dwarves (Thorin II Oakenshield, Glóin, Óin, Ori, Nori, Dori, Dwalin, Balin, Fíli and Kíli, Bifur, Bofur, and Bombur) show up and begin rudely discussing their planned treasure hunt while the hapless Bilbo provides the obligatory hospitality. After the Dwarves and Bilbo clean up the mess, a map is produced and Gandalf arranges for Bilbo to get the job — as well as to break the unlucky number 13. The company's quest: Use a secret door to get into the Lonely Mountain, send forth their burglar to steal as much of the riches within its halls as is possible, and give a recon report, then have everyone kill the dragon Smaug, to become rich again.
The next morning, after oversleeping and nearly missing the start of the journey, Bilbo goes off with the Dwarves. They are nearly eaten by 3 trolls, Tom, Bert, and William, but Gandalf manages to trick the trolls into staying up all night whereupon they are turned into stone by the first light of dawn and die (the stone trolls appear later in The Fellowship of the Ring). In the trolls' cave they find the trolls' storage of supplies, including several weapons. Bilbo acquires an Elvish short sword which he will later name Sting, which glows blue in the presence of goblins. Thorin acquires Orcrist, and Gandalf acquires Glamdring.
The party travels to Rivendell, where they enjoy the hospitality of Elves. There, Elrond finds Moon-letters on the company's map of the mountain, giving information about a secret door on its side. They then proceed eastward toward the Misty Mountains. There they are captured by goblins, and carried to Goblin-town. They run away, and during the escape Bilbo loses the Dwarves. Alone in the dark after running away from the goblins, Bilbo finds a gold ring on the floor of a cave passage and puts it in his pocket. Little did he know that this was the One Ring lost by Sauron centuries ago.
Continuing down a tunnel, he finds himself at the shore of an underground lake. Gollum quietly paddles up in his boat, and the two enact the Riddle Game, under the condition that if Bilbo wins, Gollum will show him the way out, but if Bilbo loses, Gollum will eat him. After several riddles, which each manages to answer, Bilbo, whilst fiddling in his pocket unable to think of a riddle, asks himself aloud "What have I got in my pocket?". Gollum thinks this is supposed to be the next riddle, and as it doesn't comply with the rules of the riddle game, demands three guesses; in the end he fails to guess the answer. Bilbo demands his reward, but Gollum refuses and paddles off in his boat to an island in the lake, upon which he lives. After searching around for a while asking aloud "Where is it? Where's my precious!?" to which Bilbo replies, "I don't know and I don't care. I just want to get out of here", Gollum becomes suspicious, gets in his boat, and starts paddling back across the lake towards Bilbo. Bilbo realizes his life is in danger and makes his escape down the maze of pitch-black tunnels, and Gollum gives chase. Bilbo trips, and finds the ring on his finger.  Realizing he has no chance to escape his pursuer, he stays where he is and prepares to meet his fate, but Gollum runs right over him. Bilbo realizes the Ring, while on his finger, makes him invisible. He manages to escape past Gollum, who has gone to guard the only exit, and finds his way to the surface where he rejoins the Dwarves.
Descending from the Misty Mountains, they survive an encounter with Wargs (large evil wolves) and goblins by climbing trees. Eagles, summoned by Gandalf, then came to rescue them.  They soon meet Beorn, a man who can transform into a bear.  They depart, having rested for several days.  Gandalf leaves soon on an errand. The party traverses the great forest, Mirkwood, eventually running out of supplies. Gandalf had warned them not to leave the path, but they saw fire and heard singing, so, hopeless, they leave the path to beg food from Wood-elves, only to get lost. They are captured by giant spiders, but Bilbo rescues the Dwarves by becoming invisible via the Ring and killing many spiders with Sting and rocks. Elves then capture the Dwarves and imprison them, but Bilbo manages to sneak into the Elvenking Thranduil's palace unnoticed using the Ring; he then helps the Dwarves escape in barrels floating down the river.
After staying for a short period of time at Lake-town, the treasure-seekers proceed to the Lonely Mountain. Finding themselves unable to locate the secret door, the company sits down, depressed, on a cliff. Hearing a Thrush knocking on a stone, Bilbo looks up just in time to see the last rays of the Sun of Durin's Day, shining on the cliff wall, to magically reveal the secret door (as was foretold by moon-letters upon a map that the company was in possession of). Bilbo is sent down to meet Smaug, the dragon, who realized the Company received help from the people of Lake-town, and sets out to destroy it. However, the Thrush that had been knocking on the stone was no ordinary bird but of an ancient race with whom the Men of Dale could communicate, and it had heard Bilbo's report to the Dwarves; that Smaug had a bare patch in his armor on the left side of his chest (nearest his heart) that could be used to slaughter him, if only you could get close enough. It conveyed this message to one Bard the Bowman, who seeing the bare patch on the chest of Smaug, dispatched the dragon with a single Black Arrow, thus allowing the party of Dwarves to take possession of the treasure.
The citizens of Lake-town arrive to make historical claims and demand compensation for the help they had rendered, as well as reparations for damage Smaug inflicted during his attack. They're joined by the Elves, who also demand a share based on historical claims. The Dwarves refuse all negotiations and in turn summon kin from the mountains to strengthen their position. Seeing no other way to avert a war, Bilbo uses the Ring to steal the prized Arkenstone from the Dwarves, which he uses to broker peace.
Just as a grudging truce is agreed to, the three armies at the Lonely Mountain (Elves, Men, and Dwarves) are attacked by Goblins and Wargs from the Misty Mountains. A bitter battle ensues (named the Battle of Five Armies). Though suffering heavy losses, Elves, Men, and Dwarves prevail with the help of the Eagles. The treasure is apportioned. Bilbo refuses most of the riches, realizing he has no way to bring them back home; he nevertheless takes enough with him to make himself a wealthy hobbit and live happily thereafter, unaware of the dangerous nature of his Ring, which he places in a glass case on his mantle.
In the initial edition of the novel, Gollum willingly bets his magic ring on the outcome of the riddle game. During the writing of The Lord of the Rings Tolkien saw the need to revise this passage, in order to reflect the concept of the One Ring and its powerful hold on Gollum. Tolkien tried many different passages in the chapter that would become chapter 2 of The Lord of the Rings, "The Shadow of the Past". Eventually Tolkien decided a rewrite of  was in order, and he sent a sample chapter of this rewrite ("Riddles In The Dark") to his publishers. Initially he heard nothing further, but when he was sent galley proofs of a new edition he learned to his surprise the new chapter had been incorporated as the result of a misunderstanding.
Tolkien explained the two different versions in the introduction of The Lord of the Rings, as well as inside "The Shadow of the Past", as a "lie" that Bilbo made up, probably because of the One Ring's influence on him, and which he originally wrote down in his book. Inside The Lord of the Rings, Bilbo finally confesses the real story at the Council of Elrond, although Gandalf had deduced the truth earlier. As Tolkien presented himself as the translator of the supposedly historic Red Book of Westmarch, where Bilbo and Frodo's stories were recorded, he further explained the two differing stories in The Hobbit by stating he had originally used Bilbo's original story, but later re-translated the work with the "true story" recorded by Frodo.
This first edition also mentions "gnomes", an earlier word Tolkien used to refer to the second kindred of the High Elves — the Ñoldor (or "Deep Elves"). Tolkien thought that "gnome", being derived from the Greek gnosis (knowledge), was a good name for the Ñoldor he created to be the wisest of the other Elves. However, because of its English connotations of a small, secretive, and unattractive creature (see garden gnome), Tolkien removed it from later editions. He made other minor changes in order to conform the narrative to events in The Lord of the Rings and in the ideas he was developing for the Quenta Silmarillion.
There are some facets of the story that are incongruent with the fantasy setting of The Lord of the Rings, and can seem anachronistic:
During his time as a professor at the University of Oxford Tolkien studied Anglo-Saxon. One of the Anglo-Saxon pieces of literature he studied is the epic poem Beowulf, about which he wrote essays such as The Monsters and the Critics. Interesting parallels can be found between The Hobbit and Beowulf.
The plots of the two stories are very similar. In both of them a party of 13 sets out to seek satisfaction for a crime committed by a dragon. Both parties contain a thief, which in The Hobbit is Bilbo, who steals a cup from the sleeping dragon's hoard by using a secret passage. Both dragons then awake from their deep slumber and cause terror and destruction. Both dragons are well protected by their armour, a natural one in Beowulf and one made of gold and diamonds in The Hobbit, but finally they are killed. Both stories end or almost end with a fight with a dragon.
But not only the plots share similarities: both main characters, Bilbo and Beowulf, share characteristics. Both heroes defy their enemies with their supernatural power, which in Bilbo's case is the Ring and in Beowulf's case is his supernatural strength. While Beowulf has the help of God, Bilbo often prevails because of his sheer luck. Both are of noble ancestry and both get separated from their group, Bilbo in the mountains, Beowulf when he travels down to the lair of Grendel's mother in order to kill her.
Additionally some elements of Anglo-Saxon culture can be found. In both books a king, which in Anglo-Saxon sometimes is called ring or gold giver, awards his warriors with treasures and war gear. In Anglo-Saxon culture poems are important, as they contain the people's history and they are sung by scops. Two of these songs are found in Beowulf and more in The Hobbit. The Anglo-Saxon society was one of warriors and Tolkien's Dwarves are close to this culture. They are warriors and like Anglo-Saxons they value jewellery and war gear.
One of the many covers of The Hobbit
George Allen & Unwin, Ltd. of London published the first edition of The Hobbit in September 1937. It was illustrated with many black-and-white drawings by Tolkien himself. The original illustrations would be colour plates. Allen & Unwin decided to incorporate the colour illustrations into their second printing, released at the end of 1937. Despite the book's popularity, wartime conditions forced the London publisher to print small runs of the remaining two printings of the first edition.
As remarked above, Tolkien substantially revised the text describing Bilbo's dealings with Gollum in order to blend the story better into what The Lord of the Rings had become. This revision became the second edition, published in 1951 in both UK and American editions. Slight corrections to the text have appeared in the third (1966) and fourth editions (1978).
New English-language editions of The Hobbit spring up often, despite the book's age, with at least fifty editions having been published to date. Each comes from a different publisher or bears distinctive cover art, internal art, or substantial changes in format. The text of each generally adheres to the Allen & Unwin edition extant at the time it is published.
The remarkable and enduring popularity of The Hobbit expresses itself in the collectors' market. The first printing of the first English language edition rarely sells for under U.S. $10,000 in any whole condition, and clean copies in original dust jackets signed by the author are routinely advertised for over $100,000.
In 2001, Del Rey published an illustrated, abridged edition of the book, made by Charles Dixon and illustrated by David Wenzel.
The Hobbit has been translated into many languages. Known translations, with the first date of publishing, are:
Characters
Species and creatures
Locations
The first major adaptation of The Hobbit was the The Hobbit 1977 animated film of the same name. The film was made by Rankin/Bass Productions and managed to economically retell most of the story within its 78-minute duration. An LP with the soundtrack and dialogue from the film was also released in 1977 by Disney through its Buena Vista Records label and an edited version, along with accompanying "storyteller read-alongs," was later issued for the Mouse Factory's Disneyland Records imprint. Harry N. Abrams published a large coffee-table illustrated edition of the book featuring concept art and stills. A second album by Glenn Yarbrough of music "inspired" by The Hobbit was also released.
The film was first broadcast on NBC in the United States, on November 27, 1977 (on Sunday night, three days after Thanksgiving) and is presented in a heart-warming style, featuring a lot of songs (many of which are based on poems and lyrics from the book). Much of the story has been simplified and several episodes and key scenes are omitted.
Teaser poster for An Unexpected Journey
A live-action three-part movie adaption of The Hobbit, directed by Peter Jackson, was released in 2012, 2013 and 2014. The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey on December 14, 2012, The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug on December 13, 2013 and The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies on December 17, 2014.
The Hobbit has been adapted for other media. BBC Radio 4 broadcast The Hobbit radio drama, adapted by Michael Kilgarriff, in eight parts (4 hours) from September to November 1968, which starred Anthony Jackson as narrator, Paul Daneman as Bilbo, and Heron Carvic as Gandalf. Another famous audio adaptation authorized by Professor Tolkien was published by Conifer Records in 1974 and featured Nicol Williamson as every character.
Middle-earth has been featured in songs notably by Enya and the Brobdingnagian Bards. Led Zeppelin's songs "Misty Mountain Hop" and "Ramble On" both contain references to Tolkien's mystical world. For The Hobbit itself, "The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins", performed by Leonard Nimoy as part of his 1968 Two Sides of Leonard Nimoy album, is the most pertinent because it recounts the book's storyline in its two minutes. The ballad's music video became a minor Internet meme in the early 2000s when The Lord of the Rings movies were released.
Several computer and video games, both official and unofficial, have been based on the book. One of the first was The Hobbit, a computer game developed in 1982 by Beam Software and published by Melbourne House for most computers available at the time, from the more popular computers such as the ZX Spectrum, and the Commodore 64, through to such esoteric computers as the Dragon 32 and Oric computers. By arrangement with the book publishers, a copy of the book was included with each game sold.
Vivendi Universal Games published The Hobbit in 2003 for Windows PCs, PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube. It is a "hack and slash" game produced as a prequel to The Lord of the Rings video games, but also as a softer version of those two games: less brutal, fewer enemies, but with an important platform aspect, the game was designed for smaller children. A similar version of this game was also published for the Game Boy Advance.
The Battle of Maldon, together with The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth presents J.R.R. Tolkien's translation of "The Battle of Maldon", with Tolkien's poem "The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth Beorhthelm's Son", to be released in early 2023. It is edited and features commentary by scholar Peter Grybauskas.
"The Battle of Maldon" is a 10th century Old English poem concerning a battle in which Vikings prevailed in a raid against Anglo-Saxons, near modern-day Maldon, England. In the 1930s, it was found that the Bodleian Library possessed an original text of the poem.
"The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth" is a story by Tolkien set following the Battle of Maldon, concerning Byrhtnoth, an Anglo-Saxon slain in it. The poem has previously been published in The Tolkien Reader anthology (1966), in its own booklet (1991), and Tolkien's Tree and Leaf collection (1975; 2001).
A special deluxe edition, to be released May 2023
Cover of the 50th Anniversary One-Volume Edition
Cover of the The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power tie-in One-Volume Edition
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by J.R.R. Tolkien, which was later fitted as a trilogy. The story began as a sequel to Tolkien's earlier fantasy book The Hobbit, and soon developed into a much larger story. At publication, it was divided into The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King.
Written in stages between 1937 and 1949, with much of it during World War II, it was originally published in three volumes in 1954 and 1955. It has since been reprinted numerous times and translated into at least 38 different languages, becoming one of the most popular works of twentieth-century literature.
The action in The Lord of the Rings is set in what the author conceived to be the lands of the real Earth, inhabited by humanity but placed in a fictional past, before familiar history but after the fall of his version of Atlantis, Númenor. Tolkien gave this setting a modern English name, Middle-earth, a rendering of the Old English Middangeard.
The story concerns peoples such as Hobbits, Elves, Men, Dwarves, Wizards, and Orcs (called goblins in The Hobbit), and centers on the Ring of Power made by the Dark Lord Sauron. Starting from quiet beginnings in the Shire, the story ranges across Middle-earth and follows the courses of the War of the Ring. The main story is followed by six appendices that provide a wealth of historical and linguistic background material, as well as an index listing every character, place, song, and sword.
Along with Tolkien's other writings, The Lord of the Rings has been subjected to extensive analysis of its literary themes and origins. Although a major work in itself, the story is merely the last movement of a larger mythological cycle, or legendarium, that Tolkien had worked on for many years since 1917. Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of The Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology and religion, as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien's experiences in World War I. The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great impact on modern fantasy, and the impact of Tolkien's works is such that the use of the words "Tolkienian" and "Tolkienesque" have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The immense and enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture, the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien's works, and a large number of books about Tolkien and his works being published. The Lord of the Rings has inspired (and continues to inspire) short stories, video games, artworks and musical works (see Works inspired by J. R. R. Tolkien). Numerous adaptations of Tolkien's works have been made for a wide range of media. Adaptations of The Lord of the Rings in particular have been made for the radio, for the theatre, and for film. The 2001–2003 release of The Lord of the Rings film trilogy saw a surge of interest in The Lord of the Rings and Tolkien's other works.
The back story begins thousands of years before the action in the book, with the rise of the eponymous Lord of the Rings, the Dark Lord Sauron, a malevolent reincarnated deity who possessed great supernatural powers and who later became the ruler of the dreaded realm of Mordor. At the end of the First Age of Middle-earth, Sauron survived the catastrophic defeat and chaining of his lord, the ultimate Dark Lord, Morgoth (who was formerly counted as one of the Valar, the angelic Powers of the world). During the Second Age, Sauron schemed to gain dominion over Middle-earth. In the disguise as "Annatar" or Lord of Gifts, he aided Celebrimbor and other Elven-smiths of Eregion in the forging of magical Rings of Power which conferred various powers and effects on their wearers. The most important of these were the Nine, the Seven and the Three (which he did not touch or know of the three.) called the Rings of Power or Great Rings.
However, he then secretly forged a Great Ring of his own, the One Ring, by which he planned to enslave the wearers of the other Rings of Power. This plan failed when the Elves became aware of him and took off their Rings. Sauron then launched a war during which he captured sixteen and distributed them to lords and kings of Dwarves and Men; these Rings were known as the Seven and Nine respectively. The Dwarf-lords proved too tough to be enslaved, although their natural desire for wealth, especially gold, increased; this brought more conflict between them and other races, and fed a dangerous greed. The Men who received the Nine rings were slowly corrupted over time and eventually became the Nazgûl, Sauron's most feared servants. The Three Rings Sauron failed to capture, and remained in the possession of the Elves (who forged these independently). The war ended as Men of the island-kingdom of Númenor helped the besieged Elves, and Sauron's forces were practically destroyed. At this time he still held most of Middle-earth, excluding the coasts, Imladris (Rivendell) and the Gulf of Lune.
A map of Númenor (called Andor by the Elves)
Over 1500 years later, word reached the King of Númenor, Ar-Pharazôn, that Sauron had claimed the title "King of Men". This provoked Ar-Pharazôn and gave him an opportunity to display the glory and strength of Númenor. He arrived in Middle-earth with such overwhelming force that Sauron's armies fled at the sight of the Númenóreans. Abandoned by his minions, Sauron surrendered to the Númenóreans, and was taken to Númenor as a "prisoner". Sauron then started to poison the minds of the Númenóreans against the Valar. Thus, Sauron set into motion events that brought about Númenor's destruction. He did this by corrupting the King's mind, telling him that the immortality of the Elves was his to take if he set foot upon the lands of Aman, the Blessed Realm, where Valinor, the realm of the Valar, was located. Fearing death, Ar-Pharazôn led an invasion of Aman and Valinor with the greatest host seen since the end of the First Age. However, upon reaching Aman, he and his army were buried by a landslide, and there they would remain until the Final Battle in Tolkien's eschatology. Manwë, the King of Arda, called upon Eru Ilúvatar (God), who opened a great chasm in the sea, destroying Númenor, and removed the Undying Lands from the mortal world. The destruction of Númenor destroyed Sauron's physical body and his ability to take a fair and handsome shape, but his spirit returned to Mordor and assumed a new form: black, "burning hot", and terrible.
Over 100 years later, he launched an attack against the Númenórean exiles (The Faithful, who did not join Ar-Pharazôn's expedition), who managed to escape to Middle-earth. However, the exiles (led by Elendil and his sons Isildur and Anárion) had time to prepare, and, after forming the Last Alliance of Elves and Men with the Elven-king Gil-galad, they marched against Mordor, defeated Sauron on the plain of Dagorlad, and besieged Barad-dûr, at which time Anárion was slain. After seven years of siege, Sauron himself was ultimately forced to engage in single combat with the leaders. Gil-galad and Elendil perished in the struggle, and Elendil's sword, Narsil, broke beneath him. However, Sauron's body was also overcome and slain, and Isildur cut the One Ring from Sauron's hand with the hilt-shard of Narsil, and at this Sauron's spirit fled and he did not reappear for a millenium. Isildur was advised to destroy the One Ring by the only way it could be — by casting it into the volcanic Mount Doom where it was forged — but he refused, attracted to its beauty and kept it as compensation for the deaths of his father and brother (weregild).
So began the Third Age of the Sun. Two years later, while journeying to Rivendell, Isildur and his soldiers were ambushed by a band of Orcs at the Disaster of the Gladden Fields. While the latter were almost all killed, Isildur escaped by putting on the Ring — which made mortal wearers invisible. However, the Ring slipped from his finger while he was swimming in the great River Anduin; he was killed by Orc-arrows and the Ring was lost for two millennia. It was then found by chance by a Stoor named Déagol.  His relative and friend Sméagol strangled him for the Ring and was banished from his home by his maternal grandmother. He fled to the Misty Mountains where he slowly withered and became a disgusting, slimy creature called Gollum.
In The Hobbit, set 60 years before the events in The Lord of the Rings, Tolkien relates the story of the seemingly accidental finding of the Ring by another hobbit, Bilbo Baggins, who takes it to his home, Bag End. Story-externally, the tale related in The Hobbit was written before The Lord of the Rings, and it was only later that the author developed Bilbo's magic ring into the "One Ring." Neither Bilbo nor the wizard, Gandalf, are aware at this point that Bilbo's magic ring is the One Ring, forged by the Dark Lord Sauron.
Middle-earth during the Third Age
The Lord of the Rings takes up the story about 60 years after the end of The Hobbit. The story begins in the first volume, The Fellowship of the Ring, when Frodo Baggins, Bilbo's adoptive heir, came into possession of Bilbo's magic ring. Bilbo's old friend, Gandalf the Grey, who got Bilbo involved in the adventures in The Hobbit that led to the discovery of the Ring, discovered that it was in fact the One Ring, the instrument of Sauron's power and the object for which the Dark Lord has been searching for most of the Third Age, and which corrupted others with desire for it and the power it held.
Sauron sent the sinister Nazgûl, in the guise of riders in black, to the Shire, Frodo's native land, in search of the Ring. Frodo escaped, with the help of his loyal gardener Samwise Gamgee and three close friends, Meriadoc Brandybuck, Peregrin Took, and Fredegar Bolger. While Fredegar acted as decoy for the Ringwraiths, Frodo and the others set off to take the Ring to the Elven haven of Rivendell. They were aided by the enigmatic Tom Bombadil, who saved them from Old Man Willow and took them in for a few days of feasting, rest, and counsel. At the town of Bree, Frodo's party was joined by a man called "Strider", who was revealed, in a letter left by Gandalf at the local inn for Frodo, to be Aragorn, the heir to the thrones of Gondor and Arnor, two great realms founded by the Númenórean exiles. Aragorn led the hobbits to Rivendell on Gandalf's request. However, Frodo was gravely wounded by the leader of the Ringwraiths, though he managed to recover under the care of lord Elrond, the Half-elf.
In Rivendell, the hobbits also learned that Sauron's forces could only be resisted if Aragorn took up his inheritance and fulfilled an ancient prophecy by wielding the sword Andúril, which had been forged anew from the shards of Narsil, the sword that cut the Ring from Sauron's finger in the Second Age. The treachery of Saruman, formerly head of the White Council and now in league with Sauron is also revealed. A high council, attended by representatives of the major races of Middle-earth; Elves, Dwarves, and Men, and presided over by Elrond, decide that the only course of action that can save Middle-earth is to destroy the Ring by taking it to Mordor and casting it into Mount Doom, where it was forged.
Frodo volunteered for the task, and a "Fellowship of the Ring" was formed to aid him — consisting of Frodo, his three Hobbit companions, Gandalf, Aragorn, Boromir of Gondor, Gimli the Dwarf, and Legolas the Elf. Their journey took them through the Mines of Moria, where they began to be followed by the creature Gollum, whom Bilbo had met in the Goblin-caves of the Misty Mountains years before. (The full tale of their meeting is told in The Hobbit.) Gollum long possessed the Ring before it passed to Bilbo. Gandalf explained that Gollum belonged to a people "of hobbit-kind" before he came upon the Ring, which corrupted him. A slave to the Ring's evil power, Gollum desperately sought to regain his "Precious." As they proceeded through the Mines, Pippin unintentionally betrayed their presence and the party was attacked by creatures of Sauron. Gandalf battled an ancient demon, a Balrog, and fell into a deep chasm, apparently to his death. Escaping from Moria, the Fellowship, now led by Aragorn, go to the Elven realm of Lothlórien. Here, the Lady Galadriel showed Frodo and Sam visions of the past, present, and future. Frodo also saw the Eye of Sauron, a metaphysical expression of Sauron himself, and Galadriel was tempted by the Ring. By the end of the first volume, after the Fellowship has travelled along the great River Anduin, Frodo decided to continue the trek to Mordor on his own, largely due to the Ring's growing influence on Boromir; however, the faithful Sam insisted on going with him.
In the second volume, The Two Towers, a parallel story, told in the first book of the volume, details the exploits of the remaining members of the Fellowship who aid the country of Rohan in its war against the emerging evil of Saruman, leader of the Order of Wizards, who wanted the Ring for himself. At the start of the first book, the Fellowship was further scattered; Merry and Pippin were captured by Sauron and Saruman's Orcs, Boromir was mortally wounded defending them, and Aragorn and the others went off in pursuit of the Hobbits captors. The three meet Gandalf, who has returned to Middle-earth as "Gandalf the White": they found out that he slew the Balrog of Moria, and although the battle also proved fatal to Gandalf, he was then sent back and "reborn" as a more imposing figure. At the end of the first book, Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli help defeat Saruman's armies at the Battle of the Hornburg while Saruman himself was cornered by the tree-like Ents and Huorns, accompanied by Merry and Pippin, who escaped from captivity, and the two groups are reunited.
The second book of the volume tells of Frodo and Sam's exploits on the way to Mount Doom. They managed to capture and "tame" Gollum, who then showed them a way to enter Mordor secretly (as opposed to the Black Gate), albeit through the dreaded realm of Minas Morgul. At the end of the volume, Gollum betrayed Frodo to the great spider, Shelob, and though he survived, he was captured by Orcs. Meanwhile, Sauron launched an all-out military assault upon Middle-earth, with the Witch-king (leader of the Ringwraiths) leading a fell host from Minas Morgul into battle against Gondor, in the War of the Ring.
In the third volume, The Return of the King, the further adventures of Gandalf, Aragorn and company are related in the first book of the volume, while Frodo and Sam's are related in the second, as with The Two Towers. As told in the first book, the Fellowship assisted in the final battles against the armies of Sauron, including the siege of the city of Minas Tirith in Gondor and the climactic life-or-death battle before the Black Gate of Mordor, where the alliance of Gondor and Rohan fought desperately against Sauron's armies in order to distract him from the Ring, hoping to gain time for Frodo to destroy it.
In the second book, Sam rescued Frodo from captivity. After much struggle, they finally reached Mount Doom itself, tailed by Gollum. However, the temptation of the Ring proved too great for Frodo and he claimed it for himself. However, Gollum struggled with him and managed to bite the Ring off. Crazed with triumph, Gollum slipped into the fires of the mountain, and the Ring was destroyed.
Finally, Sauron was defeated, and Aragorn was crowned king. However, all was not over, for Saruman managed to escape and scour the Shire before being overthrown. At the end, Frodo remained wounded in body and spirit and went west accompanied by Bilbo over the Sea to Valinor, where he could find peace.
According to Tolkien's timeline, the events depicted in the story occurred between Bilbo's announcement of his September 22, 3001 birthday party, and Sam's return to Bag End on October 6, 3021. Most of the events portrayed in the story occur in TA 3018 and TA 3019, with Frodo heading out from Bag End on September 23 3018, and the destruction of the Ring six months later on March 25, 3019.
The Lord of the Rings in conception was meant as a sequel The Hobbit, his tale for children published in 1937. The popularity of The Hobbit led to demands from his publishers for more stories about Hobbits and goblins, and so that same year Tolkien began writing what would become The Lord of the Rings - not to be finished until 12 years later in 1949, not be fully published until 1955, by which time Tolkien would be 63 years old.
Tolkien did not originally intend to write a sequel to The Hobbit, and instead wrote several other children's tales such as Roverandom. As his main work, Tolkien began to outline the history of Arda, telling tales of the Silmarils, and many other stories forming the vast background to The Lord of the Rings and the Third Age. Tolkien died before he could complete and put together all of this work cohesively, but his son Christopher Tolkien edited his father's work, filled in gaps, and published it in 1977 as The Silmarillion. Some Tolkien biographers regard The Silmarillion as the true "work of his heart", as it provides the historical and linguistic context for the more popular work and for his constructed languages, and had occupied most of Tolkien's adult life. As a result The Lord of the Rings ended up as the last movement of Tolkien's legendarium and, to him, the "much larger, and I hope also in proportion the best, of the entire cycle".
Persuaded by his publishers, he started 'a new Hobbit' in the third week of December 1937. After several false starts, the story of the One Ring soon emerged, and the book mutated from being a sequel to The Hobbit, to being, in theme, more a sequel to the unpublished Silmarillion. The idea of the first chapter (A Long-expected Party) arrived fully-formed, although the reasons behind Bilbo's disappearance, the significance of the Ring, and the title The Lord of the Rings did not arrive until the spring of 1938. Originally, he planned to write another story in which Bilbo had used up all his treasure and was looking for another adventure to gain more; however, he remembered the ring and its powers and decided to write about it instead. He began with Bilbo as the main character but decided that the story was too serious to use the fun-loving hobbit and so Tolkien looked to use a member of Bilbo's family. He thought about using Bilbo's son, but this generated some difficult questions, such as the whereabouts of his wife and whether he would let his son go into danger. Thus he looked for an alternate character to carry the ring. In Greek legend, it was a hero's nephew that gained the item of power, and so the hobbit Frodo came into existence.
Writing was slow due to Tolkien's perfectionism and a wartime shortage of paper. It was frequently interrupted by his obligations as an examiner, and other academic duties.
The first sentence of The Hobbit was in fact written on a blank page which a student had left on an exam paper which Tolkien was marking — "In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit." He seems to have abandoned The Lord of the Rings during most of 1943 and only restarted it in April 1944. This effort was written as a serial for Christopher Tolkien and C.S. Lewis — the former would be sent copies of chapters as they were written while he was serving in Africa in the Royal Air Force. He made another push in 1946, and showed a copy of the manuscript to his publishers in 1947. The story was effectively finished the next year, but Tolkien did not finish revising earlier parts of the work until 1949.
A dispute with his publishers, Allen & Unwin, led to the book being offered to HarperCollins in 1950. He intended The Silmarillion (itself largely unrevised at this point) to be published along with The Lord of the Rings, but A&U were unwilling to do this. After his contact at Collins, Milton Waldman, expressed the belief that The Lord of the Rings itself "urgently needed cutting", he eventually demanded that they publish the book in 1952. They did not do so, and so Tolkien wrote to Allen and Unwin, saying "I would gladly consider the publication of any part of the stuff."
For publication, due largely to post-war paper shortages, but also to keep the price of the first volume down, the book was divided into three volumes: The Fellowship of the Ring: Books I and II, The Two Towers: Books III and IV, and The Return of the King: Books V and VI plus 6 appendices. Delays in producing appendices, maps and especially indices led to these being published later than originally hoped — on 21 July 1954, 11 November 1954 and 20 October 1955 respectively in the United Kingdom, slightly later in the United States. The Return of the King was especially delayed. Tolkien, moreover, did not especially like the title The Return of the King, believing it gave away too much of the storyline. He had originally suggested War of the Ring, which was dismissed by his publishers.
Dust jacket of the 1968 UK edition
The books were published under a 'profit-sharing' arrangement, whereby Tolkien would not receive an advance or royalties until the books had broken even, after which he would take a large share of the profits. An index to the entire 3-volume set at the end of third volume was promised in the first volume. However, this proved impractical to compile in a reasonable timescale. Later, in 1966, four indices, not compiled by Tolkien, were added to The Return of the King. Because the three-volume binding was so widely distributed, the work is often referred to as the Lord of the Rings "trilogy." In a letter to W. H. Auden, Tolkien himself made use of the term "trilogy" for the work (The Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien, #163) though he did at other times consider this incorrect, as it was written and conceived as a single book (Letters, #149). It is also often called a novel; however, Tolkien also objected to this term as he viewed it as a romance (Letters, #329; "romance" in this sense refers to a heroic tale).
A 1999 (Millennium Edition) British (ISBN 0-261-10387-3) 7-volume box set followed the six-book division authored by Tolkien, with the Appendices from the end of The Return of the King bound as a separate volume. The letters of Tolkien appeared on the spines of the boxed set which included a CD. To coincide with the film release, a new version of this popular edition was released featuring images from the films, such as:
This new imprint (ISBN 0-00-763555-9) also omitted the CD.
The individual names for books in this series were decided posthumously, based on a combination of suggestions Tolkien had made during his lifetime and the titles of the existing volumes — viz:
The name of the complete work is often abbreviated to 'LotR', 'LOTR', or simply 'LR' (Tolkien himself used L.R.), and the three volumes as FR, FOTR, or FotR (The Fellowship of the Ring), TT or TTT (The Two Towers), and RK, ROTK, or RotK (The Return of the King).
Note that the titles The Return of the Shadow, The Treason of Isengard and The War of the Ring were used by Christopher Tolkien in The History of The Lord of the Rings.
The three parts were first published by Allen & Unwin in 1954–1955, several months apart. They have since been reissued many times by multiple publishers, as one, three, six or seven volume sets. The two most common current printings are ISBN 0-618-34399-7 (one-volume) and ISBN 0-618-34624-4 (three volume set). In the early 1960s, Donald A. Wollheim, science fiction editor of the paperback publisher Ace Books, realized that The Lord of the Rings was not protected in the United States under American copyright law because the US hardcover edition had been bound from pages printed in the United Kingdom, with the original intention being for them to be printed in the British edition. Ace Books proceeded to publish an edition, unauthorized by Tolkien and without royalties to him. Tolkien took issue with this and quickly notified his fans of this objection. Grass-roots pressure from these fans became so great that Ace books withdrew their edition and made a nominal payment to Tolkien, well below what he might have been due in an appropriate publication. However, this poor beginning was overshadowed when an authorized edition followed from Ballantine Books to tremendous commercial success. By the mid-1960s the books, due to their wide exposure on the American public stage, had become a true cultural phenomenon. Also at this time Tolkien undertook various textual revisions to produce a version of the book that would have a valid US copyright. This would later become known as the Second Edition of The Lord of the Rings.
The books have been translated, with various degrees of success, into dozens of other languages. Tolkien, an expert in philology, examined many of these translations, and had comments on each that reflect both the translation process and his work. To aid translators, Tolkien wrote his Guide to the Names in The Lord of the Rings. Because The Lord of the Rings is said to be a translation of the Red Book of Westmarch, translators have an unusual degree of freedom when translating The Lord of the Rings. This allows for such translations as Elf becoming Elb in German — Elb does not carry the connotations of mischief that its English counterpart does and therefore is more true to the work that Tolkien created. In contrast to the usual modern practice, names intended to have a particular meaning in the English version are translated to provide a similar meaning in the target language: in German, for example, the name "Baggins" becomes "Beutlin," containing the word Beutel meaning "bag."
In 1990 Recorded Books published an unabridged audio version of the books, and hired British actor Rob Inglis, who had starred in a one-man production of The Hobbit, to read. Inglis performs the books verbatim, using distinct voices for each character, and sings all of the songs. Tolkien had written music for some of the songs in the book. For the rest, Inglis, along with director Claudia Howard wrote additional music. The current ISBN is 1402516274.
The Lord of the Rings began as a personal exploration by Tolkien of his interests in philology, religion (particularly Roman Catholicism), fairy tales, as well as Norse and Celtic mythology, but it was also crucially influenced by the effects of his military service during World War I. Tolkien detailed his creation to an astounding extent; he created a complete mythology for his realm of Middle-earth, including genealogies of characters, languages, writing systems, calendars and histories. Some of this supplementary material is detailed in the appendices to The Lord of the Rings, and the mythological history woven into a large, biblically-styled volume entitled The Silmarillion. However many parts of the world he crafted, as he freely admitted, are influenced by other sources.
Tolkien's largest influences in the creation of his world were his Catholic faith and the Bible. Tolkien once described The Lord of the Rings to his friend, the English Jesuit Father Robert Murray, as "a fundamentally religious and Catholic work, unconsciously so at first, but consciously in the revision." There are many theological themes underlying the narrative including the battle of good versus evil, the triumph of humility over pride, and the activity of grace. In addition the saga includes themes which incorporate death and immortality, mercy and pity, resurrection, salvation, repentance, self-sacrifice, free will, justice, fellowship, authority and healing. In addition the Lord's Prayer "And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil" was reportedly present in Tolkien's mind as he described Frodo's struggles against the power of the One Ring.
Non-Christian religious motifs also had strong influences in Tolkien's Middle-earth. His Ainur, a race of angelic beings who are responsible for conceptualising the world, includes the Valar, the pantheon of "gods" who are responsible for the maintenance of everything from skies and seas to dreams and doom, and their servants, the Maiar. The concept of the Valar echoes Greek and Norse mythologies, although the Ainur and the world itself are all creations of a monotheistic deity — Ilúvatar or Eru, "The One". As the external practice of Middle-earth religion is downplayed in The Lord of the Rings, explicit information about them is only given in the different versions of Silmarillion material. However, there remain allusions to this aspect of Tolkien's mythos, including "the Great Enemy" who was Sauron's master and "Elbereth, Queen of Stars" (Morgoth and Varda respectively, two of the Valar) in the main text, the "Authorities" (referring to the Valar, literally Powers) in the Prologue, and "the One" in Appendix A. Other non-Christian mythological elements can be seen, including other sentient non-humans (Dwarves, Elves, Hobbits and Ents), a "Green Man" (Tom Bombadil), and spirits or ghosts (Barrow-wights, Oathbreakers).
Gandalf the "Odinic wanderer", from a book cover by John Howe
The mythologies from northern Europe are perhaps the best known non-Christian influences on Tolkien. His Elves and Dwarves are by and large based on Norse and related Germanic mythologies.[citation needed] The figure of Gandalf is particularly influenced by the Germanic deity Odin in his incarnation as "the Wanderer", an old man with one eye, a long white beard, a wide brimmed hat, and a staff; Tolkien states that he thinks of Gandalf as an "Odinic wanderer" in a letter of 1946. Finnish mythology and more specifically the Finnish national epic Kalevala were also acknowledged by Tolkien as an influence on Middle-earth. [citation needed] In a similar manner to The Lord of the Rings, the Kalevala centers around a magical item of great power, the Sampo, which bestows great fortune on its owner but never makes its exact nature clear. Like the One Ring, the Sampo is fought over by forces of good and evil, and is ultimately lost to the world as it is destroyed towards the end of the story. In another parallel, the latter work's wizard character Väinämöinen also has many similarities to Gandalf in his immortal origins and wise nature, and both works end with their respective wizard departing on a ship to lands beyond the mortal world. Tolkien also based his Elvish language Quenya on Finnish.
In addition The Lord of the Rings was crucially influenced by Tolkien's experiences during World War I and his son's during World War II. The central action of the books — a climactic, age-ending war between good and evil — is the central event of many world mythologies, notably Norse, but it is also a clear reference to the well-known description of World War I, which was commonly referred to as "the war to end all wars."
After the publication of The Lord of the Rings these influences led to speculation that the One Ring was an allegory for the nuclear bomb. Tolkien, however, repeatedly insisted that his works were not an allegory of any kind. However there is a strong theme of despair in the face of new mechanized warfare that Tolkien himself had experienced in the trenches of World War I. The development of a specially bred Orc army, and the destruction of the environment to aid this, also have modern resonances; and the effects of the Ring on its users evoke the modern literature of drug addiction as much as any historic quest literature.
Nevertheless, Tolkien states in the introduction to the books that he disliked allegories and that the story was not one, and it would be irresponsible to dismiss such direct statements on these matters lightly. Tolkien had already completed most of the book, including the ending in its entirety, before the first nuclear bombs were made known to the world at Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945.
While Tolkien plausibly denied any specific 'nuclear' reference, it is clear that the Ring has broad applicability to the concept of Absolute Power and its effects, and that the plot hinges on the view that anyone who seeks to gain absolute worldly power will inevitably be corrupted by it. Some also say there is also clear evidence that one of the main subtexts of the story — the passing of a mythical "Golden Age" — was influenced not only by Arthurian legend but also by Tolkien's contemporary anxieties about the growing encroachment of urbanisation and industrialisation into the "traditional" English lifestyle and countryside. The concept of the "ring of power" itself is also present in Plato's Republic and in the story of Gyges' ring (a story often compared to the Book of Job). Many, however, believe Tolkien's most likely source was the Norse tale of Sigurd the Volsung. Some locations and characters were inspired by Tolkien's childhood in Sarehole (then a Worcestershire village, now part of Birmingham) and Birmingham.
Tolkien's work has received mixed reviews since its inception, ranging from terrible to excellent. Recent reviews in various media have been, in a majority, highly positive. On its initial review the Sunday Telegraph felt it was "among the greatest works of imaginative fiction of the twentieth century". The Sunday Times seemed to echo these sentiments when in their review it was stated that "the English-speaking world is divided into those who have read The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit and those who are going to read them." The New York Herald Tribune also seemed to have an idea of how popular the books would become, writing in its review that they were "destined to outlast our time."
Not all original reviews, however, were so kind. New York Times reviewer Judith Shulevitz criticized the "pedantry" of Tolkien's literary style, saying that he "formulated a high-minded belief in the importance of his mission as a literary preservationist, which turns out to be death to literature itself."  Critic Richard Jenkyns, writing in The New Republic, criticized a perceived lack of psychological depth. Both the characters and the work itself are, according to Jenkyns, "anemic, and lacking in fiber." Even within Tolkien's social group, The Inklings, reviews were mixed. Hugo Dyson was famously recorded as saying, during one of Tolkien's readings to the group, "Oh no! Not another fucking elf!" However, another Inkling, C.S. Lewis, had very different feelings, writing, "here are beauties which pierce like swords or burn like cold iron. Here is a book which will break your heart."
Several other authors in the genre, however, seemed to agree more with Dyson than Lewis. Science-fiction author David Brin criticized the books for what he perceived to be their unquestioning devotion to a traditional elitist social structure, their positive depiction of the slaughter of the opposing forces, and their romantic backward-looking worldview. Michael Moorcock, another famous science fiction and fantasy author, is also a fervent detractor of The Lord of the Rings. In his essay, "Epic Pooh," he equates Tolkien's work to Winnie-the-Pooh and criticizes it and similar works for their perceived Merry England point of view. Incidentally, Moorcock met both Tolkien and Lewis in his teens and claims to have liked them personally, even though he does not admire them on artistic grounds.
More recently, critical analysis has focused on Tolkien's experiences in the First World War; writers such as John Garth in 'Tolkien and the Great War', Janet Brennan Croft and Tom Shippey all look in detail at this aspect and compare the imagery, mental landscape and traumas in Lord of the Rings with those experienced by soldiers in the trenches and the history of the Great War. John Carey, formerly Merton Professor of English Literature at Oxford University, speaking in April 2003 on the BBC "Big Read" programme which voted Lord of the Rings "Britain's best-loved book", said that "Tolkien's writing is essentially a species of war literature; not as direct perhaps as Wilfred Owen, or as solid as some, but very, very interesting as that — the most solid reflection on war experiences written up as fantasy."
The Lord of the Rings, despite not being published in paperback until the 1960s, sold well in hardback.
In 1957 it was awarded the International Fantasy Award. Despite its numerous detractors, the publication of the Ace Books and Ballantine paperbacks helped The Lord of the Rings become immensely popular in the 1960s. The book has remained so ever since, ranking as one of the most popular works of fiction of the twentieth century, judged by both sales and reader surveys. In the 2003 "Big Read" survey conducted by the BBC, The Lord of the Rings was found to be the "Nation's Best-loved Book". Australians voted The Lord of the Rings "My Favourite Book" in a 2004 survey conducted by the Australian ABC. In a 1999 poll of Amazon.com customers, The Lord of the Rings was judged to be their favourite "book of the millennium". In 2002 Tolkien was voted the ninety-second "greatest Briton" in a poll conducted by the BBC, and in 2004 he was voted thirty-fifth in the SABC3's Great South Africans, the only person to appear in both lists. His popularity is not limited just to the English-speaking world: in a 2004 poll inspired by the UK’s "Big Read" survey, about 250,000 Germans found The Lord of the Rings to be their favourite work of literature.
Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring
The Lord of the Rings has been adapted for film, radio and stage multiple times.
The book has been adapted for radio three times. In 1955 and 1956, the British Broadcasting Company (BBC) broadcast The Lord of the Rings, a 12-part radio adaptation of the story, of which no recording has survived. A 1979 dramatization of The Lord of the Rings was broadcast in the United States and subsequently issued on tape and CD. In 1981 the BBC broadcast, The Lord of the Rings, a new dramatization in 26 half-hour installments.
Three film adaptations have been made. The first was J. R. R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings (1978), by animator Ralph Bakshi, the first part of what was originally intended to be a two-part adaptation of the story (hence its original title, The Lord of the Rings Part 1). It covers The Fellowship of the Ring and part of The Two Towers. The second, The Return of the King (1980), was an animated television special by Rankin-Bass, who had produced a similar version of The Hobbit (1977). The third was director Peter Jackson's live action The Lord of the Rings film trilogy, produced by New Line Cinema and released in three installments as The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001), The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002), and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003). The live-action film trilogy has done much in particular to bring the book into the public consciousness.
There have been four stage productions based on the book. Three original full-length stage adaptations of The Fellowship of the Ring (2001), The Two Towers (2002), and The Return of the King (2003) were staged in Cincinnati, Ohio. A stage musical adaptation of The Lord of the Rings (2006) was staged in Toronto, Canada.
Following the massive success of The Lord of the Rings, Tolkien considered a sequel entitled The New Shadow, in which the Men of Gondor turn to dark cults and consider an uprising against Aragorn's son, Eldarion. Tolkien decided not to do it, and the incomplete story can be found in The Peoples of Middle-earth. Tolkien returned to finish his mythology, which was published in novel form posthumously by Christopher Tolkien in 1977, and the remaining information of his legendarium was published through Unfinished Tales (1980) and The History of Middle-earth, a twelve volume series published from 1983 to 1996, of which The Peoples of Middle-earth is part.
Nonetheless, the enormous popularity of Tolkien's epic saga greatly expanded the demand for fantasy fiction. Largely thanks to The Lord of the Rings, the genre flowered throughout the 1960s. Many other books in a broadly similar vein were published (including the Earthsea books of Ursula K. Le Guin, the Thomas Covenant novels of Stephen R. Donaldson), and in the case of the Gormenghast books by Mervyn Peake, and The Worm Ouroboros by E. R. Eddison, rediscovered.[citation needed]
It also strongly influenced the role playing game industry which achieved popularity in the 1970s with Dungeons & Dragons. Dungeons & Dragons features many races found in The Lord of the Rings most notably the presence of halflings, Elves, Dwarves, Half-elves, Orcs, and dragons. However, Gary Gygax, lead designer of the game, maintains that he was influenced very little by The Lord of the Rings, stating that he included these elements as a marketing move to draw on the then-popularity of the work. The Lord of the Rings also has influenced Magic: The Gathering. The Lord of the Rings has also influenced the creation of various video games, including The Legend of Zelda, Baldur's Gate, Everquest, The Elder Scrolls, Neverwinter Nights, and the Warcraft series, as well as video games set in Middle-earth itself.
As in all artistic fields, a great many lesser derivatives of the more prominent works appeared. The term "Tolkienesque" is used in the genre to refer to the oft-used and abused storyline of The Lord of the Rings: a group of adventurers embarking on a quest to save a magical fantasy world from the armies of an evil "dark lord," and is a testament to how much the popularity of these books has increased, since many critics initially decried it as being "Wagner for children" (a reference to the Ring Cycle) — an especially interesting commentary in light of a possible interpretation of the books as a Christian response to Wagner.
The work has also had an influence upon such science fiction authors as Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke. In fact, Clarke (who compared it to Frank Herbert's Dune) makes a reference to Mount Doom in his work 2061: Odyssey Three.[citation needed] Tolkien also influenced George Lucas' Star Wars films.
The Lord of the Rings has had a profound and wide-ranging impact on popular culture, from its publication in the 1950s, but especially throughout the 1960s and 1970s, where young people embraced it as a countercultural saga. Its influence has been vastly extended in the present day, thanks to the Peter Jackson live-action films. Well known examples include "Frodo Lives!" and "Gandalf for President", two phrases popular among American Tolkien fans during the 1960s and 1970s, "Ramble On", "The Battle of Evermore", and "Misty Mountain Hop", three compositions by the British rock band Led Zeppelin that contain explicit references to The Lord of the Rings (with others, such as "Stairway to Heaven", alleged by some to contain such), "Rivendell", a song about the joys of a stay at the Elven haven by the band Rush]] (found on their album Fly by Night, 1975), "Lord of the Rings" and "Gandalf the Wizard" by the German power metal band Blind Guardian (who have also produced a Silmarillion-inspired album, Nightfall in Middle-Earth), nearly the entire discography of Austrian black metal band Summoning (who have also looked to other Tolkien works for inspiration) Rock band Marillion also take their name from Tolkien's Silmarillion. The Lord of the Rings-themed editions of popular board games (e.g., Risk: Lord of the Rings Trilogy Edition, chess and Monopoly), and parodies such as Bored of the Rings, produced for the Harvard Lampoon.
paperback: ISBN 0-618-64015-0
paperback: ISBN 0-618-26030-7
paperback: ISBN 0-618-39111-8
A list of the novels set in Middle-earth.
All items (8)
The Fall of Númenor is a volume published by HarperCollins, primarily presenting J.R.R. Tolkien's account of the momentous demise of Númenor in the Second Age of Middle-earth. Edited by Brian Sibley and featuring illustrations by Alan Lee, it was published on November 15, 2022.
Unlike The Fall of Gondolin (2018) and Beren and Lúthien (2017), this book presents one unified account of history - specifically, of the entire Second Age - drawn from all available sources such as the Akallabêth and Appendix B of The Lord of the Rings, as opposed to iterations of a tale. The majority of the text concerns the history of Númenor and its people, and the deeds of Sauron. It finishes with an Appendix chronicling the Third Age, in overview.
The book is the first single-publication containing all canonical accounts of the Second Age.
Over twenty new illustrations by Alan Lee are featured throughout the text, including depictions of Gil-galad, Orcs, the advance and battles of the Last Alliance, the demise of Ar-Pharazôn's armada, Weathertop, and much else.
J.R.R. Tolkien: The Art of the Manuscript is a book by Dr. William Fliss and Dr. Sarah Schaefer, presenting the contents of an exhibition at Marquette University of J.R.R. Tolkien's manuscripts.
The exhibition, curated by Fliss and Schaefer, is a collaboration of Marquette University's Raynor Memorial Libraries (the home of their J.R.R. Tolkien Collection) and Haggerty Museum of Art, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It ran from August to December, 2022. A portion of its material had been included in the Paris showing of the Bodleian Library's 2018 Maker of Middle-earth exhibition.
The book begins with essays by the curators. Many manuscripts of Tolkien featured in the book had not been revealed in The Art of The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien (2015) or Tolkien: Maker of Middle-earth (2018), or at prior Tolkien exhibits.
This category is for books concerning Tolkien Mythology.
For organization, only pages on English-language books belong directly in this category. Books of other languages belong in a corresponding subcategory, e.g. French literature.
All items (190)
The Two Towers may refer to:
The Return of the King may refer to:
The Silmarillion is a published collection of J.R.R. Tolkien's works, edited and released posthumously by his son Christopher, with the assistance of fantasy fiction writer Guy Gavriel Kay.
It is the primary source for Middle-earth's ancient history and the First Age, and for the downfall of the Kingdom of Númenor. ("Silmarillion" is also a broad term for the whole corpus of such accounts, in all their stages of development and alteration by Tolkien from the 1910's until his death, from which The Silmarillion's contents were drawn.)
The Silmarillion is comprised of five parts:
These five parts were initially separate works, but it was the elder Tolkien's express wish that they be published together. Additionally, the book incorporates portions of several other documents not part of the original text, such as the story of Maeglin. Of the Rings of Power and the Third Age along with the Akallabêth are wholly separate and independent from the rest of The Silmarillion.
The Silmarillion, along with other posthumous collections of Tolkien's works, such as Unfinished Tales and the The History of Middle-earth series, form a comprehensive yet somewhat incomplete narrative that describes the universe within which The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings take place.
An edition including Tolkien's own illustrations, released by HarperCollins in November 2022
The Silmarillion is a complex work that explores a wide array of themes inspired by many ancient, medieval, and modern sources, including the Finnish Kalevala, the Icelandic sagas, the Bible, Greek mythology, World War I, and Celtic myths. For instance, the name of the supreme being, Ilúvatar (Father of All) is clearly borrowed from Finnish mythology. The archaic style and gravitas of the Ainulindalë resembles that of the Old Testament. And the island civilization of Númenor is reminiscent of Atlantis — one of the names Tolkien gave that land was Atalantë, though he gave it an Elvish derivation.
Some of the notable stories in the book which summarize the four Great Tales are:
Cover of the Second Edition (Dely Rey / Ballantine), with art by Mike Dringenberg
The earliest drafts of The Silmarillion stories date back to as early as 1925, when Tolkien wrote a 'Sketch of the Mythology'. However, the concepts for characters and themes were developed for a previous mythology in 1917 when Tolkien, then a British officer stationed in France during World War I was laid up in a military field hospital with trench fever. At the time, he called his collection of nascent stories The Book of Lost Tales. These stories comprised an English mythology intended to explain the origins of English history and culture (as Greek mythology explains the origins of Greek history and culture).
Cover of the 2001 Houghton Mifflin Second Edition, with art by Ted Nasmith
Many years after the war, encouraged by the success of The Hobbit, Tolkien submitted an incomplete but more fully developed version of The Silmarillion to his publisher, but they rejected the work as being obscure and "too Celtic". The publisher, George Allen & Unwin, instead asked Tolkien to write a sequel to The Hobbit, which became his significant novel The Lord of the Rings.
But Tolkien never abandoned The Silmarillion, he regarded it as the most important of his work, seeing in its tales the genesis of Middle-earth and later events as told in The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. He renewed work on The Silmarillion after completing The Lord of the Rings but eventually turned to other texts more closely associated with the events and characters depicted in The Lord of the Rings. Near the end of his life in 1973, Tolkien began to substantially revise the cosmology and its related myths, but he did not progress very far.
For several years after his father's death, Christopher Tolkien compiled a Silmarillion narrative which, at the time, he felt best approximated his father's intentions. As explained in The History of Middle-earth, Christopher drew upon numerous sources for his narrative, relying on post The Lord of the Rings works where possible, but ultimately reaching back as far as the 1917 Book of Lost Tales to fill in portions of the narrative which his father had planned to write but never addressed. On some of the later parts of "Quenta Silmarillion", which were in the roughest state, he worked with Guy Gavriel Kay (later a noted fantasy author himself) to construct a narrative practically from scratch. The final result, which included genealogies, maps, an index, and the first-ever released Elvish word list was published in 1977.
Due to Christopher's extensive explanations of how he compiled the published work, much of The Silmarillion has been debated by the hardcore fans. Christopher's task is generally accepted as very difficult given the state of his father's texts at the time of his death: some critical texts were no longer in the Tolkien family's possession, and Christopher's task compelled him to rush through much of the material. Christopher reveals in later volumes of The History of Middle-earth many divergent ideas which do not agree with the published version. Christopher Tolkien has suggested that, had he taken more time and had access to all the texts, he might have produced a substantially different work. But he was impelled by considerable pressure and demand from his father's readers and publishers to produce something publishable as quickly as possible. However, it is a severe misapprehension to think that Christopher "wrote" The Silmarillion, which, except in its concluding part, is almost entirely in his father's own words.
Some of the material published in The Silmarillion was the invention of or influenced by Guy Kay, rather than authentic ideas by J.R.R. Tolkien. In particular Of the Ruin of Doriath, saw the most revisions by him. Later books from Christopher Tolkien have explained what parts were invented, and explain J.R.R. Tolkien's actual original stories and ideas. Christopher later came to regret their overhanded 'manipulation' in The Silmarillion
In Beren and Lúthien Christopher Tolkien went back to the story and introduced much of his father's original plans for it, and his father's explanation for how Dwarven enemy (and its allies) made it past the Girdle of Melian, which had been explained in the Quenta Noldorinwa.
Other issues with the story that were inventions or removals by Guy Gavriel Kay (and Christopher Tolkien) are also discussed in The History of Middle-earth include Thingol being slain inside his palace and:
Beren and Lúthien restores much of the original story as J.R.R. Tolkien had originally conceived moving Thingol's death during a wolf-hunt outside of Menegroth (Thousand Caves), after the battles with the Dwarves hired to work the gold inside.
Other issues with the 'invented' story in the Of the Ruin of Doriath chapter (but fixed by later sources) include nature of Húrin's death, and the history of the Nauglamír (it was made from the treasure not taken from Nargothrond, rather than taken from the hoard).
During the 1980's and 1990's, Christopher Tolkien published most of his father's Middle-earth-related writings as the 12-volume The History of Middle-earth series.
In addition to the source material and earlier drafts of several portions of The Lord of the Rings, these books greatly expand on the original material published in The Silmarillion, and in many cases diverge from it. Part of the reason for this is that Christopher Tolkien heavily edited The Silmarillion to ready it for publication, in places having to choose between contradictory versions of the text. J.R.R. Tolkien also sketched ideas for radical transformations of the mythology which never reached narrative form. These later books also reveal which parts of The Silmarillion Tolkien developed more than others.
In 1998, the German power metal band Blind Guardian produced Nightfall in Middle-Earth, a concept album about key events from the Quenta Silmarillion.
More recently references and a character have appeared in the game Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor. In the story a Ranger leading a garrison on the Black Gate is killed along with his family, shortly after he is revived and a wraith Celebrimbor takes host in his once dead body. As told in the last section of The Silmarillion, Celebrimbor is killed after protecting his forged rings of power from Sauron. These two sharing a body both seek revenge and redemption.
Other events from The Silmarillion will likely be adapted in Amazon's forthcoming TV series The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power.
The Children of Húrin is the first of the Great Tales, begun by J.R.R. Tolkien in 1918 and published in 2007 (ISBN 0-618-89464-0), once more than thirty years-worth of his notes were compiled and edited by his son, Christopher.
It is the expanded account of the story of the wanderings and deeds of Túrin Turambar, son of Húrin, and his sister Niënor, in their struggle against fate (and the curse cast upon Húrin's kin). It is considered to be among the darkest examples of any of Tolkien's works, as well as the foremost substantiation of any argument against disregarding the High Fantasy genre as colorless or "holier than thou". The hero is doomed yet strives toward goodness in spite of inadvertently murdering friends and becoming his sister's lover. Túrin fights against self-loathing as well as sorrow throughout, until the culmination of the novel's events.
The book was released on 17 April, 2007 by Houghton Mifflin in the United States, and by HarperCollins in the United Kingdom.
Christopher Tolkien:
"There are tales of Middle-earth from times long before The Lord of the Rings, and the story told in this book is set in the great country that lay beyond the Grey Havens in the North: lands where Treebeard once walked, but which were drowned in the great cataclysm that ended the First Age of the World.
In that remote time Morgoth, the first Dark Lord, dwelt in the vast fortress of Angband in the North; and the tragedy of Turin and his sister Niënor unfolded within the shadow of the fear of Angband and the war waged by Morgoth against the lands and secret cities of the Elves.
Their brief and passionate lives were dominated by the elemental hatred that Morgoth bore them as the children of Húrin, the man who had dared to defy and to scorn him to his face. Against them he sent his formidable servant, Glaurung, a powerful spirit in the form of a huge wingless dragon of fire. Into his story of brutal conquest and flight, of forest hiding-places and pursuit, of resistance with lessening hope, the mythological persons of the God and the Dragon enter in fearfully articulate form. Sardonic and mocking, Glaurung manipulated the fates of Túrin and Niënor by lies of diabolic cunning and guile, and the curse of Morgoth was fulfilled.
The earliest versions of this story by J.R.R. Tolkien go back to the end of the First World War and the years that followed; but long afterwards, when The Lord of the Rings was finished, he wrote it anew and greatly enlarged it in complexities of motive and character: it became the dominant story in his later work on Middle-earth. But he could not bring it to final and finished form. In this book I have endeavoured to construct, after long study of the manuscripts, a coherent narrative without any editorial invention."
When becoming a novel in form, it was designed as a single and continuous narrative, not necessarily a source covering every account of the narrative (or alternate version of the tale). Certain aspects related to Húrin following the story are left out but do get brought up in the follow up Beren and Lúthien, as does extended story for Mîm and his curse of the gold of Glaurung, and its relevance to the fall of Doriath, and corruption of the Dwarves and others who touch it. Though there is still much of Túrin's extended history left out of either source.
Additionally, certain aspects of events Túrin's band in Mîm's fortress and his curse there differ from what was described in The Silmarillion and Unfinished Tales (though it contains much of the latter version), sometimes in the ordering of events, or inclusion/removal of certain characters. This was in part Christopher Tolkien's attempt to utilize newer sources he had discovered after those sources were published. There are a few additional details that differ between other sources, and other versions included in the The History of Middle-earth.
Most of the material of the story is from prose sources. Very little from the Lay of the Children of Húrin was used, and where it was, it was amended from verse-form to prose. When elements from Narn i Chîn Húrin, most of the side story of Húrin is excluded, i.e. his adventures and fate (which are fully recounted in the Lost Tale The Wanderings of Húrin).
Outside the publication of The Children of Húrin, many scenes from the tale of Túrin have been illustrated by the independent artist Anke Eissmann.
All items (20)
The Atlas of Middle-earth (ISBN 0-395-53516-6), written by the late Karen Wynn Fonstad, is an atlas of Middle-earth and the world of Arda. It has no affiliation with visual guides to Peter Jackson's film trilogy.
It was published in 1981 by Houghton Mifflin.
The Atlas of Middle-earth is a superior cartographic reference book for Tolkien's writings, i.e. The Silmarillion, The Hobbit, and The Lord of the Rings, and includes many detailed maps of the lands described in them.
The maps are treated as if they are of real landscapes, drawn according to the rules of a real atlas for each area the history of the land is taken into account, as well as geography on a larger scale and from there maps are drawn. Discussion includes suggestions as to the geology that could explain various formations, and points that are contradictory between multiple accounts.
City maps and floor plans for important buildings are also included. The book was published in 1981, and in 1991, a revised and updated version was published, which took information from The History of Middle-earth series into account. It was, however, published before the final three volumes of The History of Middle-earth were published, and thus some maps are based on Tolkien's early works, which were revised in later writings.
The History of The Lord of the Rings is a four-volume work by Christopher Tolkien that documents the process of J.R.R. Tolkien's writing of The Lord of the Rings. It makes volumes VI to IX of The History of Middle-earth. Some information concerning the appendices and a soon-abandoned sequel to the novel can also be found in volume twelve, The Peoples of Middle-earth.
In general, the books are organized as chapters corresponding to the chapters in the final The Lord of the Rings, with additional chapters describing the "First Map", the "Second Map", and other matters. Each chapter begins with some context, then the text of a first or second draft, possibly some alternate drafts if there were especially large changes, and interspersed with extended discussion of confusing or contradictory situations. The end of each chapter includes a set of notes about points of interest, such as words that were used originally and then partially erased or struck out.
While much of the plot of early drafts is familiar, the characters are often quite different. For instance, Aragorn in his "Strider" guise is called "Trotter" instead - and he's a hobbit instead of a man - and he has wooden feet - because he had once been to Mordor and been tortured there. The hobbits travel east initially because that was the part of the world that had been mapped out in The Hobbit and that the areas to the south were literally being mapped out only a few miles ahead of the Fellowship.
Of particular interest to fans is the dropped Epilogue to The Lord of the Rings, in which a middle-aged Samwise Gamgee is reading the story to his children.
Three of the titles of the volumes of The History of The Lord of the Rings were also also used as book titles for the seven-volume edition of The Lord of the Rings - The Return of the Shadow for Book I, The Treason of Isengard for Book III and The War of the Ring for Book V.
The Complete Guide to Middle-earth is a reference book for the canon of Middle-earth, compiled and written by Robert Foster, and now published by Random House Publishing Group.
Originally released soon after the publication of The Silmarillion, this book is generally recognised as an excellent reference book on the subject. However, as it does not include information on post-Silmarillion material (e.g., Unfinished Tales and the The History of Middle-earth series), there are errors in certain places.
The book was first published as A Guide to Middle-earth in 1971, with paperback being released in 1973. In 1978, the title was emended to The Complete Guide to Middle-earth: from The Hobbit to The Silmarillion. A revised edition was published in 2001, as well as an illustrated edition in 2003, in time for The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy (ISBN 0-345-44976-2).
The Lord of the Rings: A Reader's Companion (ISBN 0618642676) is a book written by scholars Wayne G. Hammond and Christina Scull, serving as an annotated reference to J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings. It was published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in 2005.
Hammond and Scull proceed chapter-by-chapter from the original foreword through to the end of The Lord of the Rings: examining the evolution of the text, changes, inconsistencies, and errors, and the appendices, often using comments from Tolkien's own notes and letters. Other sections cover the numerous maps, genealogies, and chronologies of the story and its writing, and notes on the book and jacket inset of the 1954-56 publications. A Reader's Companion also includes some previously unpublished material by Tolkien and reprints part of a 1951 letter in which Tolkien explicates at length his conception and vision for The Lord of the Rings.
Reprinted for the first time since 1975, and corrected and expanded, is Tolkien's Nomenclature of The Lord of the Rings (previously referred to as Guide to the Names in The Lord of the Rings), an index of persons, places, and things designed to aid the translator in rendering Tolkien's great work into foreign languages.
A Reader's Companion is available in both hardcover and paperback.
All items (20)
The History of Middle-earth (abbreviated sometimes as HoME or THOME) is a 13-volume series of books that collects and analyses material relating to Middle-earth, twelve of which were compiled and edited by the son of J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien. The series is collectively a full study of the evolution of Tolkien's legendarium, featuring hundreds of transcripts, revisions, and poems.
Materials relating to The Hobbit are not included, but are covered instead in the separate authorized The History of The Hobbit, by John D. Rateliff.
Most of the content consists of earlier versions of already published works by Tolkien, while other portions are completely new material. These books are exceedingly detailed, to the point of documenting scraps of paper (of J.R.R. Tolkien's) that had been erased multiple times with many footnotes. Christopher Tolkien thoroughly documents the history of the writing of the Middle-earth stories, with as much detail as his father documented the fictional history of Middle-earth itself.
The first two books introduce readers to The Book of Lost Tales, a mythology for England from which Tolkien drew ideas that eventually became the 'Silmarillion' mythology. The next three books follow the history of the emerging early mythology usually known as The Silmarillion. The discussion of the published book is deferred until book ten. Books six through nine discuss the development of The Lord of the Rings, book nine's second half discussing the story of Númenor (the first versions of which were covered in Book Five). Book ten and eleven discuss the Annals of Beleriand and Annals of Aman, works which were developed together with the Silmarillion tradition and which also served as source material for the published Silmarillion. Book twelve discusses the development of the Appendices to The Lord of the Rings, followed by some assorted essays from Tolkien's last years of life.
Though not officially labeled as such, Unfinished Tales and The Nature of Middle-earth are often considered the unofficial thirteenth and fourteenth volumes of the series.[citation needed]
The official thirteenth volume, The History of Middle-earth: Index, completely integrates all indices from the other twelve books into one index.
The series was first published by Houghton Mifflin Company starting in 1986, as single-colored hardcover volumes. In 2003, Del Rey Books (of Ballantine Books) published smaller mass-market paperback editions, with illustrated covers.
The collection was first published as a single, three-volume set in 2002, by HarperCollins. In 2015, HarperCollins released a paperback edition of each volume, with black spines and cover-art by John Howe. In 2017, they released a special "collector's edition" of the series contained in three large, boxed volumes.
The Lost Road and Other Writings is the fifth volume of The History of Middle-earth, a series of compilations of drafts and essays written by J.R.R. Tolkien. It was compiled, edited, and published posthumously in 1987 by Christopher Tolkien.
Hardcover publication
The Book of Lost Tales Part One is the title of the first volume of Christopher Tolkien's 12-volume series The History of Middle-earth, in which he analyses the unpublished manuscripts of his father J.R.R. Tolkien.
It was completed in 1983. The Book of Lost Tales Part Two is its sequel and other half, which came a year later.
The Book of Lost Tales contains the first versions of the stories which would later become The Silmarillion, and is notable because, while very primitive in style and content, it is very close to the later work in many ways. Each of the Tales is followed by notes and a detailed commentary by Christopher Tolkien.
While many of the names in the book are identical or close to those in the later versions, some of them bear almost no resemblance to their final forms. J.R.R. Tolkien changed names rather frequently, sometimes with several new variants (rejected in turn) written in a single manuscript. Confusingly, sometimes the name applied to one thing is later used to refer to a different thing, the original use abandoned. As an example, the house of Elves called "Teleri" in The Book of Lost Tales is not the same as that in The Silmarillion (see Teleri). The original usage of "Teleri" would eventually change until the name became "Vanyar". Meanwhile, the house of Elves called "Solosimpi" would inherit the name "Teleri".
The framework for the book is that a mortal Man visits the Isle of Tol Eressëa where the Elves live. In the earlier versions of the "Lost Tales" this man is named Eriol, of some vague north European origin, but in later versions he becomes Ælfwine, an Englishman of the Middle-ages.
There are more changes visible within the book, and it is not internally consistent, partially because even while still writing it, Tolkien began rewriting earlier parts as his ideas about the world changed. The Tales were eventually abandoned, but they were resurrected in part as the "Sketch of the Mythology" which would become The Silmarillion.
For publication, the book was split into two volumes: The Book of Lost Tales Part One and The Book of Lost Tales Part Two, but this is simply an editorial division. Both volumes are separated into several "Lost Tales", as chapters.
The following is a direct comparison between the contents of the early Book of Lost Tales and the later sketches that became The Silmarillion.
Although one of the Lost Tales often corresponds to more tales from The Silmarillion, still the narrative in the Lost Tales is more extended (typically, 50% pages more).
In J.R.R. Tolkien's notebooks, the fourth and fifth tales were a single one, told by the character Meril-i-Turinqi, but Christopher Tolkien decided to separate them because of their length. The same applies to the sixth and seventh tales, told by Lindo.
Houghton Mifflin hardcover release
The Book of Lost Tales Part Two is the second part of Christopher Tolkien's twelve-volume series The History of Middle-earth, in which he analyses the unpublished manuscripts of his father J.R.R. Tolkien.
It follows, and is generally published separately from, Part One.
The Book of Lost Tales contains the first versions of the stories which would later become The Silmarillion, and is notable because, while very primitive in style and content, it is very close to the later work in many ways. Each of the Tales is followed by notes and a detailed commentary by Christopher Tolkien.
While many of the names in the book are identical or close to those in the later versions, some of them bear almost no resemblance to their final forms. J.R.R. Tolkien emended names of characters and places rather frequently, sometimes with several new variants (rejected in turn) written in a single manuscript. Confusingly, sometimes the name applied to one thing is later used to refer to a different thing, the original use abandoned. As an example, the house of Elves called "Teleri" in The Book of Lost Tales is not the same as that in The Silmarillion (see Teleri). The original usage of "Teleri" would eventually change until the name became "Vanyar". Meanwhile, the house of Elves called "Solosimpi" would inherit the name "Teleri".
The framework for the book is that a mortal Man visits the Isle of Tol Eressëa, where the Elves live. In the earlier versions of the "Lost Tales" this man is named Eriol, of some vague north European origin, but in later versions he becomes Ælfwine, an Englishman of the Middle-ages.
There are more changes visible within the book, and it is not internally consistent, partially because even while still writing it Tolkien began rewriting earlier parts as his ideas about the world changed. The Tales were eventually abandoned, but they were resurrected in part as the "Sketch of the Mythology" which would become The Silmarillion.
For publication the book was split into two volumes: The Book of Lost Tales Part One and The Book of Lost Tales Part Two, but this is simply an editorial division. Both volumes are comprised of several "Lost Tales", which can be considered as either chapters or simply "parts".
The Lays of Beleriand, published in 1985, is the third volume of Christopher Tolkien's twelve-volume series, The History of Middle-earth.
The book gives the long "lays" or poems that J.R.R. Tolkien wrote about the sagas of Túrin Turambar and of Beren and Lúthien, which are known as the Lay of the Children of Húrin and the Lay of Leithian (or Release from Bondage). Although Tolkien abandoned both of these before their respective ends, they were many stanzas in length, lasting each for over ten pages.
The first tale is in alliterative verse, and the second is in rhyming couplets. Christopher Tolkien presents two versions of both, and in addition, a few shorter, likewise abandoned poems by his father.
The first versions of the long lays fit chronologically with Tolkien's earliest writings, as recounted in The Book of Lost Tales, but the later versions are contemporary with the writing of The Lord of the Rings.
The Houghton Mifflin hardcover edition
The War of the Jewels is the eleventh volume of Christopher Tolkien's series The History of Middle-earth, analysing the unpublished manuscripts of his father J.R.R. Tolkien.
It is the second volume (Morgoth's Ring being the first) that explores the later 1951 Silmarillion drafts, i.e. those which were written after the completion of The Lord of the Rings.
This volume includes:
"Secondary literature" refers to literature about J.R.R. Tolkien, his academic work, or his Middle-earth legendarium, written by someone outside the Tolkien family. This literature includes reference works, atlases, thorough examinations, essay collections, biographies, art books, and recipe books. This category excludes literature focusing on adaptations of Tolkien's fantasy works.
Apart from numerous, singular books by various professors, linguists, Medieval scholars, et cetera, secondary literature includes many compilation-series also, such as Tolkien Studies, the Mallorn and Amon Hen journals, the Cormarë Series, the Journal of Tolkien Research, and the Peter Roe Memorial Series, each of whose installments feature essays or reviews by different Tolkien enthusiasts, on a spectrum from scholars to common fans.
See also Category:Secondary literature.
Secondary literature is a large portion of the outstanding collection of Pieter Collier of TolkienLibrary.com.
Secondary literature is the contrast to "primary literature", which encompasses authorized works that solely or mainly present J.R.R. Tolkien's own material, such as his novels, The History of Middle-earth, publications of his lectures and Medieval writings, and The Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien. Secondary literature may or may not be directly authorized by or connected to the Tolkien Estate.
Most secondary literature, of any format, falls under Tolkien studies or Tolkien criticism, sometimes called Tolkienology. The most involved kind of secondary literature is Tolkien scholarship, in which a Tolkien expert draws on broad, personal academic experience to examine Tolkien's life or works.
This category is for books written within the canon universe of Arda.
All items (6)
The book's cover
The Red Book of Westmarch was a red-leather bound book written by the Hobbit Bilbo Baggins and his household-heir Frodo Baggins (with supplemental information later added by Samwise Gamgee), which chronicled both their adventures, as well as background information which the Bagginses had collected.
Bilbo Baggins started the book recounting his quest to Erebor, which he entitled There and Back Again. He later gave the book to Frodo at Rivendell after completing it. Frodo organized Bilbo's manuscript and used it to record his own Quest of the Ring.
Inscribed within, it reads:
Bilbo's translations of legends from the Elder Days were also added to it, as were various Hobbit poems and a significant amount of background information on the realms of Arnor, Gondor and Rohan, added to it by Peregrin Took and Meriadoc Brandybuck.
A section of the book's contents in Peter Jackson's films
After Bilbo and Frodo left for Valinor, the Red Book passed into the keeping of Samwise Gamgee, Mayor of Michel Delving. The book was left in the possession of Sam Gamgee's eldest daughter, Elanor Fairbairn, and her descendants the Fairbairns. Several copies, with various notes and later additions, were made and the original was kept in a red case (with a three-volume Elvish Translation and a fifth volume [genealogical tables and commentaries]). Copies were passed on to future generations, of which one, the "Thain's Book", is the most important.
The copy kept at Great Smials, however, was made in Gondor by Findegil in FO 171, and was said to have been requested by Peregrin Took's great-grandson.
The cover was properly red colored; and had signature print on the top, shaped as a shine of light. It also had stitch patterns and beautiful marks around the edges. Bilbo Baggins' initials BB were imprinted on the cover in gold and it was very smooth, soft and silky to the touch. On the inside, there was a page of contents; writing each story by the four owners. There is a chance that The Adventures of Tom Bombadil (a book of poems) was written by Samwise Gamgee. However, it is unknown what Elanor Gardner wrote.
In the first edition of The Fellowship of the Ring, J.R.R. Tolkien's foreword claimed he had translated the Red Book from the original Westron into English, and it therefore must be supposed that copies of the book survived through several Ages.
The contents of the Red Book were probably as follows:
Old Words and Names in the Shire was a short commentary written by the hobbit Meriadoc Brandybuck.
The document was meant to show a relationship between the language of the Rohirrim and that of the Shire-hobbits. It was thereafter kept in the library at Bucklebury.
The Yearbook of Tuckborough was the annals of the Took family of Hobbits of Tuckborough. The Yearbook was the oldest known book in the Shire and was probably kept at the Great Smials of Tuckborough.
It was started around the year TA 2000 and chronicled events dating from the foundation of the Shire in TA 1601 onwards. For comparison, The Lord of the Rings commences in the year TA 3001 (of which the Timeline of Arda gives more detail).
The Yearbook recorded births, deaths, marriages, land-sales, and other events in Took history. Much of this information was later included in the Red Book of Westmarch. It was also known as the Great Writ of Tuckborough and Yellowskin; the latter suggests that it was bound in yellow leather or some other yellow material.
The book as it appears in The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring
The Book of Mazarbul was begun in TA 2989, upon Balin's return to Moria, with Ori as one of the its scribes. The book recounted the expedition's experiences within Moria, including a battle with the Orcs that inhabited the old halls of Khazad-dûm, in which Balin's Dwarves were victorious. They settled in the Twenty-first Hall, above the East-gate, and Balin himself ruled his new domain from the old Chamber of Records, also called the Chamber of Mazarbul. Over the next five years, the Dwarves seem to have settled quite successfully into their new home, exploring under the Mountains as far as the West-gate, recovering Durin's Axe and apparently other priceless items made of mithril.
The Lordship of Balin was short-lived. Ori, who was with him in Moria, recorded in the last pages of the Book how an army of Orcs came unexpectedly out of the east, slaying Balin outside the East-gate. The Dwarves defended themselves, but they were beleaguered from the east by the Orcs and from the west by the mysterious Watcher in the Water. Their last stand was in the Chamber of Mazarbul, where the Orcs eventually overcame and destroyed them.
The victorious Orcs seem not to have understood the significance of the Book, so that rather than carrying it off or destroying it, they left it to rot in the Chamber. There it was found twenty-four years later by the Fellowship of the Ring, burned, slashed and blood-stained, and missing a number of pages, but still readable in some parts. Gandalf passed it to Gimli to return to King Dáin, after which nothing more is said of it.
We drove out the Orcs from the Great Gate and guardroom and took the First Hall. We slew many in the bright sun in the dale. Flói was killed by an arrow. He slew the great chieftain. We buried…Flói under grass near Mirrormere…came…ken we repaired…We have taken the Twenty-first Hall of North End to dwell in. There is good air…that can easily be watched…the shaft is clear…Balin has set up his seat in the Chamber of Mazarbul…gathered…gold…wonderful lay Durin’s Axe and…silver helm. Balin has taken them for his own. Balin is now lord of Moria:…today we found truesilver…well-forged helm…made all of purest mithril…Óin to seek for the upper armories of the Third Deep…go westwards to s…to Hollin Gate.
…years since…ready sorrow…yesterday being the tenth of November Balin, lord of Moria, fell in Dimrill Dale. He went alone to look in Mirrormere. An Orc shot him from behind a stone. We slew the orc, but many more came…up from east up the Silverlode…we rescued Balin’s body..after a sharp battle…we have barred the gates but doubt if…we can hold them long. If there is…no escape it will be a horrible fate to suffer, but I shall hold.
We cannot get out. We cannot get out. They have taken the bridge and Second Hall. Frár and Lóni and Náli fell there bravely while the rest retreated to the Chamber of…Mazarbul. We are still ho{ldin}g...but hope …Óin's party went five days ago but today only four returned. The pool is up to the wall at West-gate. The Watcher in the Water took Óin--we cannot get out. The end comes soon. We hear drums, drums in the deep. They are coming.
Herblore of the Shire was a book written by Meriadoc Brandybuck sometime during his tenure as Master of Buckland.
It chronicled several of the more prominent horticultural aspects of the Shire, namely what was known about the origin and cultivation of Pipe-weed as well as other herbs that were smoked habitually by hobbits. Its writing and publishing was one of Meriadoc's claims to fame for years after his death.
The Golden Book was a book about the early history of the Eldar in earlier version of the legendarium.
The book was preserved in the city of Kortirion, on Tol Eressëa. It was used as source material by Pengolod, when he wrote the Quenta Silmarillion. When Ælfwine/Eriol took the Straight Road and arrived on Tol Eressëa he was allowed to read the Golden Book. Then, he started the translation of its contents in English, but the work was completed by his son Heorrenda the Harper.
In Quenya the book is called Parma Kuluina.
This category is for characters of canon works or of adaptations, unless they are invented by the adaptation. (Such characters belong in Non-canonical characters.)
All items (47)
For characters who at any time bore a Ring of Power.
All items (23)
Sneaky hobbit (by Gollum)
Valery Dyachenko (Khraniteli)
Frodo Baggins, son of Drogo Baggins, was a hobbit of the Shire in the late Third Age. He is commonly considered Tolkien's most renowned character for his leading role in the Quest of the Ring, in which he bore the One Ring to Mount Doom, where it was destroyed. He was a Ring-bearer, best friend to his gardener, Samwise Gamgee, and was one of three hobbits who sailed from Middle-earth to the Uttermost West at the end of the Third Age.
Much of Frodo's youth was spent at Brandy Hall in Buckland, the ancestral home of the Brandybuck family, including his mother (Primula Brandybuck). Frodo was known as something of a rascal, befriending Meriadoc (Merry) Brandybuck and Peregrin (Pippin) Took and causing trouble wherever they went. They would often steal mushrooms from Farmer Maggot's farm Bamfurlong.
In TA 2980, when Frodo was only 12 years old, his parents drowned in a boating accident on the Brandywine River. An only child, Frodo stayed in Brandy Hall until his 99-year-old "uncle" Bilbo, his father's second cousin, adopted him in TA 2989. Bilbo took Frodo to live with him in his home at Bag End and made him his heir.
Frodo Baggins as seen by Matthew Stewart
The two grew very close in the following years; Frodo learned much of the Elvish language during his time with Bilbo, as well as much of the lore of Middle-earth. They also had a weekly tradition of taking long walking trips together from Hobbiton to Michel Delving and Buckland; all throughout the Shire. The two shared the same birthday, September 22 by Shire Reckoning (around September 12–14 of our calendar), and a party of special magnificence was held when Frodo came of age of thirty-three and Bilbo achieved the notable age of 111.
Bilbo gave a memorable birthday speech before playing a joke on his fellow hobbits by using the One Ring to disappear, at which Gandalf quickly reacted and used his staff to create a blinding flash where Bilbo had been standing. The hobbits at the party were left confused and disgruntled, and Bilbo was never again seen in the Shire.
Before departing for his journey to Rivendell, Bilbo had a long conversation with Gandalf, who finally persuaded him to voluntarily surrender the One Ring. Bilbo left it on the fireplace mantel with a note for Frodo, who would now become the next Ring-bearer.
After the party finished, Frodo returned home and discovered that he was now the master of Bag End and the recipient of Bilbo's magic Ring. Gandalf, ever more curious about the Ring's origin, power, and purpose (but not yet positive it was the One Ring), advised the young hobbit against the using the Ring. For the next seventeen years, Frodo complied with the wizard's request and hid the Ring in a safe place. However, on April 12, 3018, Gandalf returned to Bag End and warned Frodo that the Ring was actually the One Ring, which the Dark Lord Sauron needed to rule over Middle-earth. Realizing that Sauron would be looking for the Ring, Gandalf advised the Hobbit to secretly follow Bilbo's journey to Rivendell.
Gandalf telling Frodo the story of the One Ring
Frodo with Bilbo during his 111th birthday
After Frodo's discussion with Gandalf, a rumor started that he was running out of money. This rumor, although not begun by Frodo, was encouraged by him. Merry helped Frodo to purchase a small house at Crickhollow. With the exception of his gardener Sam Gamgee, who had agreed to accompany him to Rivendell, Frodo told the other Hobbits of the Shire that he intended to move to Buckland. He sold his home to the Sackville-Bagginses, and, on the September 23, 3018, the day after his fiftieth birthday, Frodo left from Bag End, taking with him Sam and Pippin. They left in the early morning for Bree, and just in time, as Sauron's most powerful servants, the nine Nazgûl, had entered the Shire dressed as Black Riders searching for a hobbit with the name of Baggins.
Frodo was nearly captured by a Black Rider on the road, but was saved by Gildor Inglorion, whom he asked for advice. Leaving the roads to cut across country, Frodo and Sam reached Farmer Maggot's farm, who helped them to evade the Riders. Meeting Merry at Bucklebury Ferry, they saw a Rider tracking them from the bank they'd departed from. On arrival at Crickhollow, Frodo found that Merry and Pippin already knew about his "secret" journey. Frodo was left with no alternative but to bring the two youngsters with him. They cut through the Old Forest and the Barrow-downs in hopes of losing the Black Riders, which did succeed. They met other troubles in those places though, at the hands of Old Man Willow and the Barrow-wights, but were rescued twice by Tom Bombadil, a mysterious being who dwelt in a glade in the middle of the Old Forest.
Frodo meeting Strider at The Prancing Pony
In Bree, the hobbits stayed at The Prancing Pony, an old inn. Frodo went by the name of Mr Underhill, attempting to raise as little suspicion as possible. When he noticed a mysteriously cloaked Man sitting in the shadows and smoking a long-stemmed pipe, Frodo asked the innkeeper, Barliman Butterbur, who the man was. The innkeeper referred to the man, a Ranger, as Strider.
That night, Black Riders arrived in Bree and attacked the inn in search of Frodo and the One Ring, but Strider had managed to hide the Hobbits from them in time. Having gained their trust, Strider introduced himself as Aragorn to Frodo and the others, to whom he also revealed the backstory of the black riders, also called Nazgûl or Ringwraiths. With a pony named Bill that the Hobbits had acquired at Bree, Strider led Frodo and his companions into the Wild. Aragorn would be their guide to Rivendell, and he would lead them through the Midgewater Marshes and to the hill of Weathertop.
Frodo is stabbed by the Witch-king's Morgul-knife
On the night of October the sixth, the Hobbits were attacked by five of the nine Ringwraiths at Weathertop. In the presence of the Nazgûl, Frodo made the mistake of putting on the Ring. He was able to resist their attempt to take him by drawing his sword and invoking the name of one of the Valar, Elbereth Gilthoniel. Unfortunately, the leader of the Nazgûl, the Witch-king of Angmar, stabbed Frodo in the shoulder (he would have stabbed his heart) with a Morgul-knife. If it had caught him in the heart, Frodo would have become like the Nazgûl, only weaker and under their control. The Ringwraiths were driven away by the appearance of Aragorn and his martial skill; also because he had torches, one of their few weaknesses.
Though Aragorn was a skilled healer, he could not heal Frodo's wound. A fragment of the Ringwraith's blade remained in Frodo's flesh, where it continued to move towards his heart. Near death (or worse), Frodo was rescued by Glorfindel, an Elf-lord, who put the injured Hobbit upon his horse Asfaloth. They were found and pursued by the Nazgûl, as Glorfindel rode and bore Frodo swiftly to the Ford of Bruinen, at the entrance to the valley of Rivendell. Once they had crossed the River Bruinen, the Nine Ringwraiths behind them demanded Frodo give up the Ring, but Frodo refused. Subsequently, the Ringwraiths entered the river and were washed away in a flood called up by Elrond.
The Hobbits reuniting in Rivendell
Frodo was soon healed in Rivendell by Elrond, who knew the wound would not ultimately leave him, as it was both spiritual and physical. On the 24th of October 3018, Frodo awoke in Rivendell and was reunited with Bilbo, Gandalf, Aragorn, Sam, Merry, and Pippin. Although Elrond had healed his wound, it continued to ail him yearly for as long as he lived in Middle-earth.
Frodo placing the One Ring before the Council of Elrond
After his healing, Frodo was summoned to a great Council that Elrond had organized. Representatives of all the Free Peoples of Middle-earth discussed the history of the Rings of Power and decided that the One Ring must be destroyed. As the Ring was shown and tempers flared, argument broke out as to who should carry the Ring on this mission, until Frodo bravely volunteered to take the Ring to Mordor and cast it into the fires of Mount Doom. A member of each of the Free Peoples offered to join Frodo in his quest, thus forming the Fellowship of the Ring.
The Fellowship consisted of Frodo, Samwise, Merry, Pippin, Aragorn, Gandalf, Boromir of Gondor, Legolas of the Woodland Realm, and Gimli of the Lonely Mountain. Before leaving Rivendell, Bilbo gave Frodo his dwarf-made coat of mithril mail and his elven blade Sting. The mithril coat had been given to Bilbo by Thorin Oakenshield during the events of The Hobbit, and Sting had been taken by Bilbo from a troll den. On December 25, the Fellowship of the Ring departed from Rivendell and headed south.
The Hobbits of the Fellowship of the Ring prepare to battle goblins in Moria
After an attack by White Wolves in Eregion, on January 11, 3019, the Fellowship attempted to cross the Misty Mountains (specifically the Pass of Caradhras), but were unable to due to a snowstorm. They instead traveled through the underground city of Moria at the urging of Gimli.
Some days in into their dangerous trek through Moria, the Fellowship entered the Chamber of Mazarbul, and was attacked by Orcs and a cave-troll. Frodo helped to defeat the troll before he was stabbed by an Orc captain, his mithril-shirt saving him from a deadly blow. The Fellowship then ran from there to the Bridge of Khazad-dum, at which Gandalf dueled Durin's Bane and fell. Once outside Moria, while the Fellowship was grieving, Gimli took Frodo and Sam to look upon the Mirrormere, even in their great hurry.
Galadriel and Frodo
Deeply grieved by their loss, the Fellowship journeyed to the Elven kingdom of Lothlórien, where they met the Lady Galadriel and Lord Celeborn. Galadriel showed Frodo a vision of the future in her Mirror. Frodo offered her the One Ring, but she resisted the temptation to take it, passing the test that was laid before her, and accepting the diminishing of the power of the Elves. Before the Fellowship departed from Lothlórien, Galadriel gave each member a gift. To Frodo, she gave a phial with the light of the star Eärendil captured inside; this gift would prove hugely important later on in the quest. They were also provided with elven way-bread, other supplies, and boats for their voyage down the Anduin River.
Frodo puts on the One Ring to hide from Boromir
The Fellowship continued their journey south to Parth Galen. There, Boromir, a Man of Gondor and a member of the Fellowship, attempted to convince Frodo to bring the Ring to Minas Tirith and regroup from there. When the hobbit asked for an hour alone to consider his options, Boromir followed him. Seeing that Frodo did not intend to take the suggested course of action, Boromir tried to take the Ring from him by force.
Frodo put on the Ring and escaped to the Seat of Seeing, where he watched as war brewed across Middle-earth and the Eye of Sauron searching for him as he traveled. He was nearly spotted, but the Dark Lord's attention was drawn away by a resurrected Gandalf.
Taking off the Ring, he decided to take the item to Mordor alone, without telling the other members of the Fellowship. However, he was joined by his friend Samwise Gamgee, who felt it was necessary that he should protect and guide Frodo. Frodo gave in to Sam's protests, and although reluctant to lead anyone else to his fate, was glad to have Sam's company.
The two hobbits continued toward Mordor, dividing the Fellowship. Meanwhile, Boromir was killed by Uruk-archers while defending Merry and Pippin; the two young hobbits were then captured by Uruk-hai, and were to be taken to Isengard. Instead of following Samwise and Frodo to Mordor, the Three Hunters, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli, decided it more important to rescue Merry and Pippin from their captors. The breaking of the Fellowship was now complete.
Frodo and Sam journey towards Mordor
After leaving what remained of the Fellowship at Amon Hen, Frodo and Sam tried to navigate through the winding paths and razor sharp rocks of the Emyn Muil. After getting lost several times, they were found by Gollum, who at first tried to take the One Ring, but was captured by Sam (with Frodo's help) and tied up with the Elven rope. Frodo, now pitying the creature, decided not to slay Gollum, but forced him to swear an oath of servitude to the master of the precious. Gollum then led them out of the maze and into the Dead Marshes.
Frodo during the passage of the Marshes
The Dead Marshes lay to the south of Emyn Muil, and were just as disorienting, if not more so. There was thought to be no route through the marshes, as Orcs marched for miles around, although Gollum had secretly discovered a path when traveling. He led Frodo and Sam on a safe pathway through the marshes, warning them not to follow what seemed like small torches in the water.
Soon after Frodo, Samwise, and Gollum entered the Dead Marshes, a Nazgûl flew over them on a Fellbeast, looking for the Ring. Gollum had led the two hobbits to a safe place that they could hide in.
Frodo taken captive by Faramir's Rangers
Gollum led the two Hobbits to the Black Gate of Mordor, as Frodo had desired, but stopped the Hobbits from passing its doors, as the danger was too great. He then explained about a secret way into Mordor, 'Up the stairs and through the tunnel'. The Hobbits once again found themselves being led by Gollum. After venturing into Ithilien, and witnessing a skirmish between a company of Haradrim warriors (along with Oliphaunts) and Rangers from Gondor, they were apprehended by the Ranger's captain, Faramir. When the skirmish had ended, Faramir blindfolded the ring-bearer and his companions and led them to Henneth Annûn, the Window on the West. Upon much interrogation, Sam foolishly misspoke, and gave away that Frodo was indeed carrying the One Ring. Realizing the importance of the quest, Faramir proved his quality, unlike his brother, Boromir, and let the Ring-bearer go free, resupplying the hobbits with food for their journey. Later, Gollum was captured in the Forbidden Pool and forcibly taken into the hidden lair. Frodo begged for his safety, and he was not killed, although the rift between master and servant had once again begun to open.
Frodo prior to being poisoned by Shelob
Gollum led the hobbits past the lair of the Witch-king of Angmar, Minas Morgul, and up the Stairs of Cirith Ungol into 'The Tunnel'. When they arrived at the top though, they were abandoned by Gollum. They cautiously traveled through the tunnel, and managed to get to the end only to find their way barred by Shelob's great web. Whilst attempting to cut through the webbing, Frodo bravely stood up to Shelob and forced her back further into the tunnels giving him and Sam time enough to hack through the threads and escape. Upon escaping the tunnels, Frodo thought himself safe; however, Shelob, through one of her many tunnels, managed to sneak out and jab him with her stinger. As he was being encased in Shelob's webbing, Sam was able to draw her into single combat wherein he, using Sting and the Phial of Galadriel, was able to mortally wound her and drive her back into her caves. Sam took the Ring from around Frodo's neck upon hearing Orcish voices, and hid behind some nearby rocks. He overheard the Orcs speaking of Frodo, and Sam realized that his master was not dead, but merely paralyzed. Frodo was then taken to the Tower of Cirith Ungol to await further torture and questioning.
Frodo was taken to the utmost top of the tower and imprisoned.  He was stripped of all his clothes and all the things he carried. Squabbling over his mithril vest, fighting broke out amongst the two lead Orcs and their battalions, killing almost all the Orcs and Uruks in the tower. Sam arrived at the gate of Cirith Ungol, only to find his way blocked by the Two Watchers; he eventually overcame them, entered the tower where Frodo was held, and rescued his master. They fled the tower, having to pass the Watchers again (although this time destroying them), and entered Mordor.
Frodo and Sam crawled onward through the empty plains of Mordor, as the Orcs had been sent to the Black Gate to stop the Men of the West's army, and, after falling in and out of a company of Orcs, started to climb Mount Doom. They journeyed on for many days with hardly any food or water, and Frodo became progressively weaker as the Ring's power over him grew the closer they came to Orodruin. Frodo was eventually unable to go on, and Sam was forced to carry him a fair distance while his master rested upon his back. It was then that Gollum reappeared, and after a brief struggle, Sam cut Gollum in the stomach, and Frodo fled up the mountain.
Frodo missing a finger
Inside the Cracks of Doom, Frodo finally had the chance to destroy the Ring, and rid himself of his burden, but the power of the Ring was at its strongest due to it being in the place of it's making. It was here that Frodo finally yielded to the temptation and power of the Ring. Sam yelled for Frodo to destroy the Ring, but Frodo was overcome by its power and claimed the Ring for himself. Gollum attacked Sam, who fell and hit his head on a rock, temporarily knocking him unconscious. When he came to he saw Gollum fighting with an unseen foe (Frodo, having put on the Ring). Then Gollum bit off Frodo's finger, Ring and all, and was reunited with his treasure for a short time, until dancing with joy he toppled off the brink and fell into the depths, destroying himself and the One Ring.
Sam and Frodo after the completion of their quest
The two hobbits tried to escape as the volcano erupted. Just as it looked as though they were doomed, Gwaihir the Lord of Eagles saw them, and with his Eagle companions Landroval and Meneldor rescued Sam and Frodo and flew them to safety.
After recovering at the Field of Cormallen and witnessing the crowning of Aragorn as King Elessar, Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin all returned to the Shire. When they arrived though, they found it under the control of an individual named Sharkey (later revealed to be Saruman) and his forces. Saruman was ruling the Shire from Bag End, although he was later murdered by Gríma Wormtongue. Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin however, started to gather all the Shirriffs and townsfolk of the Shire, and they successfully defeated the Ruffians employed by Sharkey at the Battle of Bywater.
Frodo was not directly involved in the fighting at the Battle of Bywater; instead, he made sure that no Hobbits were harmed (saying that no Hobbit had ever intentionally harmed another in the Shire and that it was not going to begin there), and also that any Ruffians that surrendered were not harmed.
Frodo gazing fondly at his friends as he bids them farewell at the Grey Havens
Following the Scouring of the Shire and end of the War of the Ring in November TA 3019, Frodo, went on to serve as Deputy Mayor of the Shire. During his brief tenure of six months, he helped lead the rebuilding of the Shire, but soon realized that he still bore the wounds of his quest.  On May 1st, TA 3020, Frodo attended the wedding of his best friend Sam and his wife Rosie Cotton and they moved in with him at Bag End. On mid-years day later that year, Frodo retired from his post as Deputy Mayor, letting the office revert to Will Whitfoot.  During his last days in middle-earth, he tried to live as peacefully as possible. Frodo was still troubled by his shoulder wound, which pained him on each anniversary of the attack at Weathertop, in addition to falling sick on each anniversary of being stung by Shelob. As such, October 6th of that year, he would suffer from his wounds again. March 13th, TA 3021 brought similar ailments, Frodo being ill from his stinging. While living with Sam and Rosie he would witness the birth of their oldest daughter Elanor twelve days later. Prior to departing Middle-earth, he also wrote his own story "The Lord of the Rings" along with Bilbo's "There and Back Again" in the Red Book of Westmarch.
On 29 September TA 3021 (Third Age), at the age of 53, Frodo joined Bilbo, Gandalf, Elrond and Galadriel aboard an Elven ship. He was allowed passage across the sea to the Undying Lands, as he was a Ring-bearer, with the hope of healing the damage to his spirit that bearing the Ring had caused.
During the Fourth Age, Frodo spent the his days in a period of reflection, attempting to understand his place in Arda, having been given the opportunity as he healed from the trauma afflicted upon him due to his quest during the War of the Ring.
In the year 61, fellow Ring-bearer and best friend Samwise Gamgee, reunited with Frodo in the Undying Lands. By such a point, Frodo would have been 113 and together the friends lived out the rest of their days in peace.
Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin at The Green Dragon
Frodo, as described by Gandalf, was "taller than some and fairer than most, (with) a cleft in his chin: perky chap with a bright eye." (The Fellowship of the Ring, Chapter 10, "Strider")He was a shy, young hobbit with thick, curly brown hair like most other hobbits, and had lighter-than-usual skin due to his Fallohide ancestry through his Brandybuck mother. He could be described as fairly good looking for a hobbit. Frodo is described as appearing thirty-three, even when he is fifty, due to the influence of the Ring.
Bilbo and Frodo shared a common birthday on September 22, but Bilbo was 78 years Frodo's senior. At the opening of The Fellowship of the Ring, Frodo and Bilbo were celebrating their thirty-third and eleventy-first (111th) birthdays, respectively.
Frodo, like Bilbo, was considered by many others in Hobbiton to be a little odd. His curiosity of the outside world, fascination with Elves and faraway places (like those to which Bilbo traveled in The Hobbit) did not fit the general content personality of most Hobbits. This curiosity was also attributed to his Took ancestry. He was very kind and compassionate, pitying Gollum and allowing him to guide him and Sam to Mordor despite Sam's distrust of the creature. This act of kindness later proved to be a factor in the quest's success in destroying the Ring.
The influence of the Ring and the wound by the Morgul knife seems combined to have given him the ability to see into the spirit world, for instance he sees faraway events in his dreams on several occasions. He also can see the ring of power worn by Galadriel and he seems to be able to sense danger.
Frodo was dressed in typical Hobbit-fashion when he left the Shire: knee breeches, shirt, waistcoat, jacket, and cloak. Colors such as bright green and yellow were typical for Shire-folk. He was unarmed, save for a pocketknife.
When his little group was waylaid by Barrow-wights, he lost his summer-weight clothing and was wearing a burial shrift when rescued by Tom Bombadil. When their pack-ponies returned, he was forced to put on heavier woollen clothing intended for colder weather. The Hobbits found several long Dúnedain daggers in the wight's treasure. These served as short-swords for the Hobbits, but Frodo's was broken when he resisted the Witch-king at Weathertop. At Imladris, he removed his Hobbit clothing upon finding new Elven clothes that fitted him perfectly. Therefore, throughout his quest, he wore a green silk tunic, trousers together with cloaks made of fur for the first stages of the quest, and then towards Mordor he shed them to wear his tunic and trousers in the warmer weather. Later, his uncle Bilbo gave him both Sting, a magic Elven dagger, and a coat of mithril chain mail. The mail saved his life twice, first when it deflected a spear-point in the Mines of Moria, and second when it turned aside the dagger that Saruman used to try and kill him.
As with the other members of the Fellowship of the Ring, Frodo received a special cloak from Galadriel in Lórien, which allowed him to blend in with natural surroundings. Upon being betrayed by Gollum and captured by Orcs at Cirith Ungol, Frodo lost all of his clothing and most of his possessions. Sam Gamgee saved Sting, however. After the two tribes of Orcs had slain each other in the tower of Cirith Ungol, Frodo dressed himself in Orc-garb. This successfully fooled the Mordor-Orcs they encountered, but he dropped the Orc mail and helmet as he and Sam approached Mount Doom.
Originally, Frodo was to be named Bingo Bolger-Baggins, but as the work became more serious, that name was dropped.
Frodo Baggins (1978)
Christopher Guard voiced Frodo in Ralph Bakshi's The Lord of the Rings (1978 film) with Sharon Baird doing the modeling.
Frodo Baggins (1980)
Orson Bean voiced Frodo in the Rankin/Bass The Return of the King film, the same actor who portrayed Bilbo in The Hobbit and in The Return of the King.
There are several differences between Peter Jackson's film trilogy and the book The Fellowship of the Ring. In the movies, Frodo seems to have owned the Ring for only a few days or perhaps a few months before Gandalf returned, as opposed to the seventeen years of the book. Frodo never sells Bag End, but sets out early next morning with Sam. Merry and Pippin run into the pair at the farm of Farmer Maggot and are pulled into the journey. The Hobbits are pursued by the Black Riders all the way to Bucklebury Ferry on the borders of Buckland. There the Black Riders are forced to ride to the Brandywine Bridge while the Hobbits make for Bree. The movies remove several parts of the journey as well. These include their encounters with the High Elves, Farmer Maggot, and Tom Bombadil, as well as their visit to Buckland, the Old Forest, and the Barrow-downs.
Arwen, Elrond's daughter, leads Frodo to Rivendell instead of Glorfindel. The Cave-troll inflicts the wound on Frodo in Moria, instead of the Orc captain. In the novel, Faramir declared right from the first that he wanted no part of the One Ring, but in the film Faramir at first follows what he believes is his duty to bring the Ring back to Minas Tirith. But while travelling with Frodo, Sam, and Gollum through the city of Osgiliath, the city is attacked by a Nazgûl and the forces of Mordor, and Faramir realizes he should not take the Ring after he sees the effect it has on Frodo.
Frodo receiving Sting from Bilbo in LEGO The Lord of the Rings
Frodo in The Lord of the Rings Online
Frodo appears in many video games, including:
Frodo was portrayed by Lauren Lopez in a parody of Lord of the Rings by the group Team Starkid.
Elijah Wood reprised his role in an AT&T Streaming app commercial, wherein, shortly after a request was made to see The Lord of the Rings, Frodo requests the streaming app to play his music from the Shire playlist. As with the other people in the ad, only his mouth is actually seen.
Bilbo Baggins was a Hobbit of the Shire, the main protagonist of The Hobbit and a secondary character in The Lord of the Rings.
Gandalf suggested to Thorin and Company that they hire Bilbo Baggins to be their burglar in the Quest of Erebor, and later fought in the Battle of Five Armies. Bilbo was also one of the bearers of the One Ring, and the first to voluntarily give it up, although with some difficulty. He wrote many of his adventures in a book he called There and Back Again. Bilbo adopted his second-cousin-once-removed Frodo Baggins to be his heir after his parents, Drogo Baggins and Primula Brandybuck, drowned in the Brandywine River.
Bilbo was the first hobbit to become famous in the world at large, and one of the few to set foot in the Undying Lands.
Bilbo Baggins was born on September 22 by Shire Reckoning (around September 12-14 of our calendar), in the year 2890 of the Third Age. He was the only son of Bungo Baggins and Belladonna Took.
In Hobbiton, Bungo Baggins constructed a spacious and luxurious Hobbit-hole for Belladonna, which they named Bag End. The family moved to their new home, where Bilbo would spend much of his life.
A young Bilbo upon first meeting Gandalf
As a young Hobbit, Bilbo was curious and eager for news of the outside world. The Istar wizard, Gandalf, took interest in this unusual quality in Bilbo during his visits to the Shire. Bilbo would later remember Gandalf's firework displays in the dwelling of his mother's family at Great Smials. Bilbo apparently practiced his rock-throwing skills in his youth so much, that birds and squirrels fled the area whenever he bent down to pick up a rock.
When Bilbo's father and mother died in TA 2926 and TA 2934 respectively, Bilbo became his own master and spent the next seven years living alone in Bag End. During this time, Bilbo grew fond of his life as a wealthy bachelor and acquired a reputation for respectability that the neighbors admired.
Gandalf invites Bilbo on an "adventure"
In the year TA 2941, Bilbo, at the age of 50, was visited by Gandalf, whom he had not seen for quite some time, outside his home at Bag End. Gandalf invited Bilbo on an unspecified adventure, which was flatly refused by the hobbit, who bade the wizard a "Good morning", and went inside.
Undeterred, Gandalf continued in his plan, sending thirteen Dwarves, led by Thorin Oakenshield, to Bag End the very day. These Dwarves, needing an additional member for their company, initially came by pairs, and lastly with Gandalf, who had himself selected Bilbo as the best person for the Dwarves' job. The Dwarves explained to Bilbo their background and purpose; that they were among the Dwarves of Erebor who had been forced from the Lonely Mountain when the dragon Smaug attacked and taken up residence there. They now had determined to reclaim the mountain and needed a "burglar" to help them in situations requiring stealth. Bilbo reluctantly agreed to go, and the next morning they set off from the Green Dragon Inn.
Thorin's Company traverses the Lone-lands
Thorin and company traveled through the Lone-lands along high hills and beside castles. After approximately one month since their outset, Gandalf disappeared. Óin and Glóin failed to make a fire during a rainy night, and Balin spotted a fire in the distance, which was rare in those regions, and sent Bilbo to investigate. At the fire were three Stone-trolls, Tom, Bert, and William. Bilbo attempted to snatch something from the trolls to bring back to the Dwarves, to show that he was a first-class burglar. However, he was caught by William, but he escaped and was helpless to prevent all the Dwarves from being captured when they came looking for him. Fortunately for the Dwarves, Gandalf returned and saved them all by imitating the trolls' voices and tricking the trolls into arguing with one another until daybreak, which turned them all to stone. After rescuing the party, the wizard led Bilbo and the party to the trolls' cave, which the trolls had used to hide their treasure and shield themselves from the sun during the daylight hours. In the cave, a number of weapons were found, Glamdring (Beater) and Orcrist (Biter) among them. Bilbo took an Elvish dagger from the trolls' collection, no longer than a small knife in size, which he would later name Sting. He kept it with him for the rest of his adventure, wearing it inside his breeches.
In June the company came to Rivendell. During their visit, Bilbo met Lord Elrond, and became enchanted with the Elves. On midsummer eve Elrond inspected the swords of Thorin and Gandalf and looked at Thrór's Map, which Gandalf had previously given to Thorin at the behest of Thorin's father Thráin II. Elrond explained that the swords were forged in Gondolin and were named Orcrist and Glamdring. When inspecting the map Elrond found Moon letters that spoke of the side-door of Erebor, which read: Stand by the grey stone when the thrush knocks and the setting sun with the last light of Durin's Day will shine upon the keyhole.
Bilbo and his companions then traveled from Rivendell and made their way to the High Pass of the Misty Mountains, where they witnessed the distant thunder-battle of giants. It was here the company, after taking shelter in what they took to be a simple cave, were captured by goblins and taken to Goblin-town. With Gandalf's help, they escaped from the Great Goblin and his servants. Dori, however, who was carrying Bilbo, was grabbed from behind by a goblin, and in the ensuing struggle Bilbo lost consciousness and was inadvertently left by his companions.
Bilbo finds The One Ring
Coming to and finding himself alone, Bilbo crawled his way through the pitch-black tunnel, using his hobbit nose to gain a sense of direction. He eventually stumbled upon a small Ring, but thought nothing of it, and put it in his back pocket. Although he did not know it, this lost trinket was the One Ring, forged by the Dark Lord Sauron thousands of years ago. Bilbo soon encountered Gollum, who had been in possession of the Ring for over five hundred years. The two challenged each other to a game of riddles with the condition that Gollum would show the way out if Bilbo won. However, Gollum was not satisfied with Bilbo's final riddle, and while mourning his loss, found that his Ring was gone. Gollum then realized the answer to Bilbo's riddle, "What have I got in my pocket?" and paddled back on his boat towards Bilbo, who he then accused of stealing his precious, but Bilbo had vanished.
Gollum, thinking Bilbo had known the way out and was leaving, headed to the exit and was followed by Bilbo. Bilbo was soon reunited with his companions. Bilbo and the travelers had stopped for the night when goblins and a pack of Wargs found them near a patch of pine trees. The Dwarves, Bilbo, and Gandalf climbed up the trees to escape, but the goblins were not going to leave without killing them. They started to burn the trees down. The warg chieftain was ordering the other wargs around when Gandalf picked up a pinecone, and with his magic set it ablaze in a green fire. He threw it down hitting the chieftain. It rolled around on the ground burning while Gandalf threw more and more pinecones down. The goblins and wargs fled and the group was rescued by eagles. When an eagle grabbed Dori, Bilbo had to jump and grab Dori's legs before he was forgotten. This prompted Bilbo to groan "My arms! My poor arms," and Dori to cry, "My legs! My poor legs!" The eagles eventually took them to their eyrie where they rested and continued their journey.
Bilbo and Gandalf with Beorn
The group traveled to Beorn's house where they rested, after being gruffly taken in by Beorn and his animal servants. Beorn learned their story and gave a large number of provisions to help their quest. Beorn also lent several ponies to be used until the group reached Mirkwood. However, Beorn did not fully trust the Dwarves, so Bilbo saw Beorn giving careful watch to see that his ponies were unharmed. When the company arrived at the Forest Gate the ponies were let go (to several of the Dwarves discontent) and Gandalf left the group as well, warning them, "Do not stray off the path."
Bilbo reaches the canopy of Mirkwood
The Company began to follow the path through the treacherous forest. Eventually the provisions ran low and the Company was forced to send Bilbo up a tree to see where the forest ended. Bilbo climbed up a tree, where a rewarding breeze of cool air and butterflies met him. Bilbo only saw more forest, so when he reluctantly climbed back down, he did not see that the forest ended. He reported his findings to the Dwarves, where they met the news with ill comfort, angry that they were fatter than Bilbo and so could not climb the trees to feel cool air or see the butterflies. Eventually the last provisions were eaten. The Company then came upon the Enchanted stream, of which they had been warned not to drink by Beorn. Bilbo saw a boat on the other side, leading the Dwarves to retrieve it. A deer came out of nowhere when all the Dwarves were on the other side. A Dwarf shot it where it died, on the other side. The Dwarves hoped for venison for dinner, when Bilbo realized that Bombur was drowning. The Dwarves fished him out to find he had been put to sleep by the stream's magic, but the boat was knocked away, ending the hope for venison.
While wandering down the path, the Dwarves saw lights in the forest. Deciding that they would rather leave the path than starve to death they headed after the lights. As soon as they got to the lights, they went out and one of their party fell asleep. This happened twice. On the third time all of them fell asleep.
Bilbo faces the spiders of Mirkwood
When Bilbo awoke in the night, he was alone. He cursed the Dwarves for leaving the path and discovered that great spiders had captured his companions. Bilbo was forced to find his lost companions and cut through the cocoons the spiders had formed around his companions. He distracted the spiders by improvising several insulting songs to irritate them, and succeeded when the creatures left their domain to find the intruder and eat him. Bilbo killed a few by throwing stones at them and by stabbing them with Sting. The spiders never found him, since during this time Bilbo made use of the Ring to remain invisible. After freeing the Dwarves, he led them into a charge against the spiders, where the company killed dozens of the arachnids.
After traveling through Mirkwood the Dwarves were taken prisoner by Wood-elves, who believed that the company had "assaulted" the Elves while they were partying (the bright lights the company had seen in the forest). Bilbo avoided being caught by using the ring to stay invisible, and followed them into the Halls of Thranduil, the Elven-king, where they were held captive. Eventually Bilbo was able to rescue the Dwarves by stealing the butler Galion's keys, and found a way for the company to escape the Woodland Realm by stowing away in a number of empty barrels, which periodically were taken by the Elves down the Forest River to Lake-town for trading purposes. The plan worked, and soon they all arrived at Lake-town, which they found to be a small town occupied by Men that Smaug would sometimes attack, though he had not been seen in many years.
The men of Lake-town took Bilbo and the Dwarves to the Great Hall to present the company to the Master and his councilors, and though the Master initially thought to imprison them in order to keep good relations with the wood-elves, he decided against it when the populace proved to be strongly in support of Thorin's company. Thus, Bilbo and the Dwarves spent several weeks in Lake-town as guests of honor, though Bilbo eventually caught a cold.
Before long Thorin's company departed Lake-town, and crossing the river, followed Thrór's Map to the location of the Side-door before the end of Durin's Day. Upon discovering the keyhole, the door was opened and Bilbo was sent in alone in order to scout ahead and perhaps to steal some treasure from Smaug. When he arrived in the treasure chamber, however, Smaug was awake and sensed his presence, and so Bilbo put on the ring to avoid being seen.
Bilbo conversing with Smaug
Smaug, though unable to see the hobbit, tried to figure out who or what the intruder was, but Bilbo refused to tell the dragon his true identity, answering Smaug's questions only in riddles. While invisible, Bilbo noticed that Smaug had a bare spot on his jewel-encrusted underbelly. Finally, Bilbo removed the ring and Smaug saw that he had stolen a cup, causing him to go into a terrible rage. After Bilbo made it out of Smaug's lair safely, he convinced Thorin and the other Dwarves to enter the side-door and close it behind them, which saved their lives when Smaug left the mountain, and flying to the side-door, scorched the surrounding area. Foiled, the dragon flew off to Lake-town with the intent to destroy it once and for all. Bilbo afterwards relayed to the Dwarves what he had learned, but a thrush, hearing the information, flew to Lake-town and told Bard, a descendant of the Men of Dale, of Smaug's weakness. On Smaug's arrival, Bard shot the Black Arrow at the bare spot, killing Smaug and sending him to rot at the bottom of the lake, but destroying most of Lake-town.
Bilbo gives the Arkenstone to Thranduil
In the meantime, Thorin and company had reclaimed the Lonely Mountain, though Bilbo, having found the Arkenstone that Thorin greatly desired, kept it secret from the Dwarf. They were informed by Roäc, an old raven of the mountain, of Smaug's death in Lake-town, but quickly the Dwarves' mirth was dampened by the news that the surviving Men of Lake-town and the Elven-king's army were marching to the mountain to reclaim their wealth. Thorin, suspicious of the armies, refused to make any deal, with them at their arrival, and barricaded the mountain, thus beginning a siege. Bilbo, hoping to avoid conflict, took the Arkenstone to Bard and Thranduil, in order for them to barter their share of the treasure with. Despite Bard and the Elvenking's offers for the hobbit to stay with them for the time being, Bilbo decided to return to the mountain. To his surprise on leaving to return to Thorin's company, he found that Gandalf had returned, and found the wizard supported his decision. Bilbo then slipped back to the mountain, unnoticed by the Dwarves.
Bilbo admits to taking the Arkenstone
Thorin, on soon afterwards discovering Bilbo's perceived treachery, was furious and banished the hobbit from the mountain. Bilbo stayed with Gandalf and Bard for a short time, until Dwarves from the Iron Hills, led by Dáin Ironfoot, arrived to aid Thorin's cause. However, shortly following this, a great army of goblins, led by Bolg, attacked, forcing the Dwarves, Elves, and Men to fight together to both defend the mountain and survive. This became known as the Battle of Five Armies, and though the goblins were defeated, Thorin and his nephews Fíli and Kíli were mortally wounded. Bilbo only witnessed part of the battle, as he was rendered unconscious early on, and wearing the ring, lay undiscovered until he came to following the battle's conclusion. Beorn, chieftain of the Beornings, who had joined the fight, slew Bolg along with his bodyguard and carried Thorin to safety. Bilbo, making his way to the tents of the wounded, found Thorin lying on a bed, in his last minutes of life. Thorin praised Bilbo and apologized to him for cursing him earlier, and thereafter passed away.
Bilbo leaves Gandalf to return to Hobbiton
After Thorin's funeral, the new king Dáin II offered him his one-fourteenth share of the treasure, but Bilbo declined, receiving only two small chests, one with gold, and the other laden with silver. Bilbo traveled back with the wood-elf host that participated in the Battle of Five Armies. Bilbo traveled with the wood-elves down to Mirkwood, and then went to Beorn's house with Gandalf. Then Bilbo set out with Gandalf to where Bert, Tom, and William had turned to stone. They dug up some of the buried treasure the Dwarves had buried earlier, most of which Bilbo offered to Gandalf to use to aid the peoples of Middle-earth. When they at last came to the borders of the Shire, the two parted, with Gandalf going his own way.
Bilbo finds his belongings being auctioned off.
Bilbo eventually made it back to Hobbiton, where he found an auction taking place at which his relatives, the Sackville-Bagginses, believing him dead, were selling most of his possessions to the other hobbits. The Sackville-Bagginses were vexed to see Bilbo alive, since they wanted to live in Bag End themselves. Bilbo had to buy back his sold possessions in order to avoid quarreling with the purchasers. After some years, Balin and Gandalf visited him, where they reported the current news of Middle-earth.
Although Bilbo returned safely to Bag End with his reward and lived in relative comfort, Bilbo’s life was not quite the same as it had once been. His sudden return after having been thought dead lost him some of the neighbors’ respect and he was later thought of as an oddity, and there were many talks and false rumors circulated about his affairs and doings. The worst of these problems came from the Sackville-Bagginses, who were angry that they were not able to possess Bag End when he was thought to be dead. This jealousy and anger increased when Bilbo adopted his second-cousin-once-removed Frodo (a Brandybuck on his mother's side) as his heir presumptive.
Bilbo ignored these things said about him and avoided the Sackville-Bagginses as much as he could, even using the Ring once to hide from them. Bilbo was very generous with his money and most people were willing to forgive him for his oddities. He had many friends especially amongst the Gamgees whom he consulted frequently on landscaping and on the growing of vegetables. His good friend the Gaffer even allowed him to tutor his son Samwise Gamgee. Bilbo taught him to read and write, and at some point taught him various bits of poetry and told him tales of the elder days. Yet, he slowly began to become weary of his settled and sheltered life at Bag End.
Bilbo at the time of his 111th birthday party
Bilbo was the bearer of the One Ring for six decades, ignorant of its significance. However, by TA 3001, the Ring had begun to affect him. He did not appear to have aged at all, although he felt older and thin inside. He decided that he wanted to partake in one more adventure before he found a place to settle down and finish his account of the Quest for the Lonely Mountain.
On September 22, a farewell Birthday Party was held in his honor, where he announced his intention to leave the Shire, to the shock of his family and friends. Immediately afterward, he put on his Ring and disappeared, as a joke on his neighbors. He returned to his house where he was confronted by his friend Gandalf, who tried to persuade him to leave the Ring for Frodo. Bilbo initially agreed, but then became hostile and accused Gandalf of trying to steal the ring for his own benefit, which he referred to as his "precious."
Bilbo gives up the Ring before leaving Bag End
Horrified by Bilbo's outburst, Gandalf stood to his full height and ordered Bilbo to leave it behind. Immediately Bilbo returned to his senses, apologizing and admitting that the Ring had been troubling him lately. After a moment of inner struggle, Bilbo finally dropped the ring to the ground, becoming the first Ring-bearer to give up the ring of his own will. Bilbo and Gandalf bade each other goodbye, and Bilbo left the Shire for his journey.
On the same day, Bilbo left the One Ring and his home of Bag End in the possession of his relative, Frodo Baggins, who was eager to be his own master despite the loss of Bilbo, for he was not yet ready to leave the Shire. After his departure, Bilbo wandered to Rivendell and then, after a rest, accompanied some Dwarves to Dale and the Lonely Mountain, before returning to Rivendell.
Bilbo Baggins at Rivendell
Between TA 3003 and TA 3018, Bilbo worked on the written account of his adventures, in a book that would later be known as the Red Book of Westmarch. He also studied the Elvish language and compiled a three-volume history of the Elder Days, which he called Translations from the Elvish. He composed the poem All that is Gold Does Not Glitter for Aragorn as well as a much longer poem about Eärendil during his stay at Rivendell.
In October 3018, Frodo arrived at Rivendell. Bilbo learned that his nephew was on a quest to destroy the One Ring and offered to take the Ring to Mordor himself at the Council of Elrond. His offer was politely declined due to his age, so Bilbo gave Frodo the sword Sting and for protection his mithril shirt. However, he remained in Rivendell while Frodo traveled south. After Frodo returned, Bilbo had noticeably aged, partially freed from the Ring's effects, although he continued to desire it.
Bilbo shortly before departing Middle-earth, aged 131
Since Bilbo had been a ring-bearer, he was allowed to accompany Frodo to the Undying Lands. On September 22, 3021, Bilbo turned 131 and became the oldest hobbit ever to have lived. On September 29, he, Gandalf, Elrond, Galadriel, and Frodo boarded a ship docked at the Grey Havens and sailed away from Middle-earth. His fate afterward is not known but as he too was a mortal being, he most likely died in the light of the Blessed Realm of Valinor.
Bilbo was a very friendly and well-mannered hobbit fond of food, drink, a full pipe, his friends and good cheer, and was known for greeting strangers and friends with hospitality saying; "At your service and your family's." Being related to both the Tooks and the Baggins, two kins of fundamentally opposite mentalities, with the Tooks being more fond of adventures and wandering, and the Baggins not at all, Bilbo at times recognized two sides within himself, his "Took side" and "Baggins side". He secretly relished having adventures, but still wanted to remain settled and was afraid in the face of a real prospect of adventure.Bilbo seemed to be happy with his life at Bag End, and would have been content to remain a child of his father, had adventure not come upon him. Still very afraid and wishing he had never left his hobbit-hole, the Took side eventually won out, even after he returned home to his old life. Thus, his desire for another adventure never truly departed from him in his heart even into his old age. This he demonstrated in his sudden departure from Bag End in TA 3001.
An analysis of the English types represented in Bilbo is given by Tom Shippey in J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century.
Bilbo Baggins (1977)
In The Hobbit (1977 animated film), Bilbo Baggins is voiced by Orson Bean.
In The Lord of the Rings (1978 film), Bilbo Baggins is voiced by Norman Bird.
Bilbo Baggins (1978)
In The Return of the King (1980 film), Bilbo Baggins is voiced by Orson Bean.
In Peter Jackson's film trilogy, an old Bilbo Baggins is portrayed by Ian Holm.
Bilbo is portrayed by Martin Freeman, primarily, and briefly by Ian Holm as Bilbo's older self in Peter Jackson's The Hobbit trilogy.
159.4x159.4px
Bilbo Baggins appears in the game The Hobbit (2003), as the only playable character. His weapons include Sting, a walking/fighting stick, and collectible rocks. Bilbo's stick can be quite powerful against enemies that cannot block - it is most effective against agile spiders that inflict significant damage yet do not have much health of their own. It can also be used to pole-vault across wide expanses. Throughout the game, Bilbo collects scrolls that give him new or improved attacks.
In The Lord of the Rings Online Bilbo can be found in the Hall of Fire in Rivendell, engaged in a game of riddles with Lindir.
The 2005 documentary Ringers: Lord of the Fans features a delivery of "The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins", a song performed by Star Trek actor Leonard Nimoy in 1967.
Thrór sitting on his throne with the Arkenstone demonstrating his power to rule.
In his early life, Thrór and his family lived in the dragon-plagued Ered Mithrin. In TA 2589, when their halls came under attack by Cold-drakes, his father Dáin I and younger brother Frór were both slain at their gates by a great Cold-drake, and Thrór inherited the kingship. He and his youngest brother Grór resolved to divide their folk: Thrór led a small portion of Durin's Folk to recolonize Erebor, taking the Arkenstone with him. Grór led the other portion of Durin's Folk further east to the Iron Hills where he founded his realm.
Under Thrór's leadership, Erebor prospered for over a century. Eventually the wealth of the kingdom attracted the attention of the dragon known as Smaug, who flew south and destroyed the kingdom, killing hundreds of Dwarves and driving away Thrór and his family, as well as thousands of other surviving Dwarves. The majority of the survivors migrated to the Iron Hills, but some followed King Thrór, his son Thráin II, and grandson Thorin Oakenshield west into a long and homeless wandering. They eventually, settled in the hills of Dunland where they made a living as best they could.
Twenty years later in TA 2790, Thrór now old, poor, and desperate, gave to his son Thráin II the last of the Seven Rings, a key and map of the Lonely Mountain. He then left his people and journeyed away north with a single companion called Nár. They crossed over the Misty Mountains through the Redhorn Pass and then came south again, crossing the Silverlode into the valley of Azanulbizar beneath the East-gate of Moria. When they arrived, the gate was open. Nár begged Thrór to beware but, Thrór disregarded his pleas and proudly entered Moria as its returning heir, but he did not come back.
Nár waited and hid nearby for many days. One day he heard a great shout, followed by the blast of a horn, and a body was flung out onto the steps. It was indeed the body of Thrór, as Nár had feared. Then a voice called out to him from just inside the gate. Rather than being killed as well, Nár was instead made use of as a messenger. He was told to deliver a warning that 'beggars' who would not wait at the doors but instead entered to attempt thieving, would meet a similar fate. Nár was told to bring this message back to his people. But that was not all: the voice proclaimed that he now ruled Moria, and if any wanted to know who was king, he had written his name on the beggar's face. Thrór's head lay severed next to his body. Nár turned it over and found branded across the forehead, written in Dwarven runes, a name that would be branded in the hearts of all Dwarves: Azog. He was barred from retrieving the head of Thrór and was struck with a pouch containing a few coins of little worth, which Azog referred to as a 'fee', but it was meant as a final insulting gesture. Nár took the pouch and fled down the Silverlode. When he looked back, Orcs had emerged from the gate and were hacking apart Thrór's body and flinging the pieces to the black crows.
This was the tale that Nár brought back to Thráin II when he returned to Dunland weeks later. After seven days of sitting in silent grief, Thráin at last stood up and declared that this atrocity would be answered. This was the beginning of the War of the Dwarves and Orcs, although it took up to three years for the Dwarves to gather their full forces. The war culminated with the Battle of Azanulbizar, which, though costly, was won by the Dwarves, and Dáin Ironfoot, son of Náin, beheaded Azog and mounted the Orc's head on a stick. The pouch of coins originally flung at Nár was stuffed into Azog's mouth.
Thrór's map, which he had made at some point prior to his death, was eventually passed to his grandson Thorin II Oakenshield by the wizard Gandalf through Thrór's son, Thráin, during the latter's imprisonment at Dol Guldur. This map was translated by Elrond, and utilized by Thorin's company in the year TA 2941 to reclaim Erebor from Smaug.
King Thrór concept art
In the 2012 live-action film The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, Thrór is portrayed by Welsh actor Jeffrey Thomas, but has no lines (except a brief cry of "No!" when the Arkenstone falls into a roiling pile of gold during the loss of Erebor).
In that film's story line (a significant departure from Tolkien's version), as recounted by Balin, Thrór leads the Dwarves forces at the Battle of Azanulbizar, where the displaced Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain attempt to reclaim Moria and meet an army of Orcs led by Azog. However, Thrór is killed and beheaded in hand-to-hand combat with Azog, resulting in his son, Thráin II, going mad with grief and disappearing, while Thorin II Oakenshield is enraged enough to challenge the Defiler. With nothing but a sword and a small oak branch as a shield, he succeeds in partially avenging his grandfather's death by cutting off Azog's upper left arm and turning the tide of the battle.
In all three films, Thrór is partially blamed for the coming of Smaug, having become so greedy and overtaken with lust for gold that his massive hoard eventually draws the dragon to the Lonely Mountain. In deleted scenes from the first film, Elrond describes the gold-lust as a hereditary disease of Durin's line, and Thorin is shown worrying about whether he has inherited his grandfather's "sickness." In the second film, Thranduil, who has faced "the great serpents of the North", claims to have warned Thrór about the dangers of amassing so much gold, but the dwarf refused to listen; likewise, Balin warns Thorin that a "sickness" lies upon Thrór's hoard, and Balin fears it will drive Thorin mad as it did Thrór. These words come back to haunt Thorin in the third film, when Thorin finally sees that he has succumbed to his grandfather's sickness, before casting off his crown and rallying the Company to join the other factions in fighting against Azog's army.
Thrór was powerful, honorable, and proud in his own right. However, in time his love of gold had grown far too fierce and he began spending endless hours fawning over his rivers of treasure. It was this obsession and vast treasure that attracted the unwanted attention of Smaug, the greatest fire-drake of the Third Age. Like many Dwarf lords it can be presumed that he was stout in body as he was in spirit, albeit quite greedy. This greed can be attributed, no doubt, to the effects of his ring of power which brooded a great lust for gold within their Dwarven bearers. This greed even lead to the spurning of King Thranduil, and the eventual souring of their relationship.
Much of this article relates to the final versions of Middle-earth's history, and as such may contain discrepancies with The Silmarillion. See LOTR:Canon for a discussion. This subject's portrayal in earlier or alternative versions is discussed in the Earlier versions of the legendarium section.
Galadriel was the "Lady" of the woods of Lothlórien, which she ruled with Celeborn, her husband.
One of the greatest of the Elves in Middle-earth, she surpassed nearly all others in beauty, knowledge, and power. She bore Nenya, one of the three Elven rings of power. J.R.R. Tolkien deemed her as one of the mightiest and fairest of all Elves remaining in Middle-earth in the Third Age.
She was the only daughter and youngest child of Finarfin, prince of the Ñoldor, and Eärwen, whose cousin was Lúthien. Her elder brothers were Finrod Felagund, Orodreth, Angrod, and Aegnor. Galadriel was a niece of Fëanor, the most important Elf of the early First Age.
Galadriel in Aman, by Marya Filatova
Galadriel was born in Valinor in the Years of the Trees, before the First Age. Much of Galadriel's story is confusing, and there are several distinct tales told about her collected in Unfinished Tales. According to the older account, used in The Silmarillion, Galadriel was an eager participant and leader in the rebellion of the Ñoldor and their flight from Valinor due to her desire to one day rule over lands in Middle-earth herself.
She was eager to see Middle-earth, having heard of it from Fëanor, and desired to rule a realm of her own. She swore no oaths and was like-minded to her cousin Fingon, son of Fingolfin.
Galadriel witnessing the kinslaying at Alqualondë, by Elena Kukanova
However, separated from Fëanor and his kin, she and her people did not take part in the Kinslaying at Alqualondë. They followed Fingolfin instead and crossed the Helcaraxë in the far north. Although in the latest version of the story, Galadriel's story changed significantly, far from joining Fëanor's rebellion, she opposed him in nearly everything. And that she wished to leave Valinor and go to the vast world of Middle-earth, to give free rein there to her talents. She went for a time to live with her mother's relatives in Alqualondë,  where she met her future husband, Celeborn. Together they planned to build a ship and sail to Middle-earth; and they were about to ask permission to the Valar, when Melkor with Ungoliant, destroyed the light of the Trees. In Fëanor's rebellion that followed, Galadriel had no part, and together with Celeborn, fought against Fëanor defending her mother's kin in defense of Alqualondë, and Celeborn's ship was spared of the attack of the Noldor. Galadriel was horrified by Fëanor's violence and cruelty, and sailed in the night to  Middle-earth without waiting for Manwë's permission.
Galadriel, by Maria Dimova
Once in Beleriand, she lived nominally with one of her brothers, most likely Finrod, but spent much time at the court of Thingol and Melian in Menegroth, where she arrived in FA 52 and was welcomed because of her family relationship to Thingol's brother Olwë, Galadriel's maternal grandfather. She met Celeborn, a kinsman of Thingol, in Doriath. She also traveled to visit her brother, Finrod, in his realm of Nargothrond multiple times. Her three other brothers were killed during various battles in the First Age.
Galadriel became friends with Melian the Maia, who wanted to know the cause of the Exile of the Ñoldor. Galadriel only briefly narrated the story to her, leaving out the death of Finwë, the Kinslaying at Alqualondë, and the burning of the ships at Losgar. She dwelt in Nargothrond with her brother Finrod, and asked him if he would take no wife. But Finrod had taken an oath only for himself, and his beloved had been left in Valinor.
She had no role in the major wars of the First Age, believing that defeating Morgoth was beyond the power of the Eldar; when Morgoth was defeated by the coming of the Valar out of the West she, having played no part in the earlier Kinslaying, was offered safe return to Valinor. However, she chose not to leave Middle-earth, and was the only leader of the Ñoldor exiles to remain after the First Age.
Celeborn and Galadriel traveled first to Lindon, where they ruled over a group of Elves as a fiefdom under Gil-galad, the High King of the Ñoldor. Sometime later, they had a daughter, Celebrían. They moved eastward and established the realm of Eregion, or Hollin, which they ruled under Gil-galad. Eregion, to the west of the Misty Mountains near Khazad-dûm, was a prosperous kingdom during this time, and had open trade with the Dwarves. Also, during this time, they made contact with a Nandorin settlement in the valley of the Anduin, later to be known as Lothlórien. Subsequently, when Celebrimbor took over the rule of Eregion, Galadriel left by way of the mines of Khazad-dûm. After the death of King Amdír, in the War of the Last Alliance, and the departure his son Amroth, Celeborn and Galadriel became the Lord and Lady of Lothlórien.
Galadriel, Gil-galad, and Círdan receive the Three Rings of Power
In the Second Age, the Maia Annatar, "Lord of Gifts", guided Celebrimbor and the other Ñoldor of Eregion in the creation of the Rings of Power. Galadriel had immediate distrust in Annatar, which was later justified when he was revealed to be Sauron. Galadriel counseled Celebrimbor in the hiding of the rings, and when Eregion was attacked, she was entrusted with one of the Three Rings of the Elves. Her ring was Nenya, the Ring of Water.
Conscious of Sauron's power, and wishing to thwart it, she did not use the powers of her ring as long as the One Ring was in Sauron's hands. However, during the Third Age, when the One Ring was lost, she put it to good use protecting the borders of her realm, for the powers of her ring were protection, preservation, and concealment from evil.
Through Celebrían's wedding to Elrond, Galadriel was the grandmother of Elladan, Elrohir, and Arwen.
The tales tell little of Galadriel or of Celeborn during many centuries in the Third Age, but after the formation of the White Council in TA 2463 she put forth her might in opposition of Sauron. During the invasion of the Balchoth, Galadriel provided aid to Eorl the Young and the Éothéod in the form of a white mist that protected them both from the evils of Sauron in Dol Guldur and the sight of their enemies. This allowed the Éothéod to ride unnoticed to the Battle of the Field of Celebrant. They would become the Rohirrim but regarded her and the Golden Wood with fear.
She played a pivotal role in the formation of the White Council, though her counsel to put Gandalf at its head was not followed.
Galadriel shows Frodo and Sam her mirror - by Ted Nasmith
Just prior to the War of the Ring, Galadriel hosted the Fellowship of the Ring after their escape from the mines of Moria.
Once in Caras Galadhon, Galadriel allowed Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee to peer into the Mirror of Galadriel, enabling them to glimpse possible events of the future. She, in turn, was tested when Frodo later offered to place the One Ring in her keeping. To illustrate what would happen if she accepted, she presented an image of herself corrupted by the ring, declaring:
In place of the Dark Lord you will set up a Queen. And I shall not be dark, but beautiful and terrible as the Morning and the Night! Fair as the Sea and the Sun and the Snow upon the Mountain! Dreadful as the Storm and the Lightning! Stronger than the foundations of the earth. All shall love me and despair!
Then swiftly she returned to her original form, seemingly smaller and frailer than before, declaring, "I pass the test," refusing the Ring and accepting the fate of diminishing (as the time of the Dominion of Men had come), and returning at last to Valinor. As the Fellowship departed, she gave each member a gift and an Elven cloak, and outfitted the party with boats and supplies. Gimli, in particular, was touched by Galadriel's nobility and beauty, and asked for one strand of her golden hair as an heirloom of his house; she generously gave him three (having refused the same request from Fëanor), which he later set in an impregnable crystal.
Apart from the strands of hair given to Gimli, she gave a Mallorn seed and a small box of earth from her garden to Samwise Gamgee; a green Elfstone set in silver to Aragorn, along with a scabbard for his sword Andúril; and a belt each to Boromir, Merry, and Pippin. To Legolas she gave a long, stout bow of the Galadhrim. To Frodo, she gave a magical phial which captured the light of Eärendil's star, which Frodo and Sam would later use to great effect to pass through Shelob's lair to complete their quest. After the departure of the Fellowship, Galadriel acted to ensure the success of the quest. It was she who summoned Gwaihir to rescue Gandalf off the peak of Celebdil, and it was she who nursed him back to health, dressing him in white, symbolizing his status as the new leader of the order of wizards.
Later, she sent word to Aragorn about the Paths of the Dead, and messages to the Rangers of the North, leading to the southward ride of the Grey Company. As Sauron put forth all his power during the War of the Ring, he was aware of the threat of the Elves and their ancient potency, so he sent armies to besiege many of their settlements in the North while simultaneously assailing the major cities of Men and Dwarves. Lórien itself was assaulted three times , but the armies of Dol Guldur were driven back due to the courage of the Elves and the power of Galadriel's ring.
Galadriel, her husband Celeborn, and Elrond about to leave for Valinor
It is said that the power of her Ring could not be overcome unless Sauron himself would come to do battle. After the fall of Sauron she, with Thranduil of Mirkwood and their Elven allies, crossed the Anduin to Dol Guldur, where they tore down its walls and "laid bare its pits". She then traveled to Minas Tirith for the wedding of King Elessar and Lady Arwen and returned to Lórien until TA 3021 when she journeyed to the Grey Havens and, with the remaining Ring-bearers, took a ship and returned at last to the Undying Lands whence she had come so long ago.
The Lady Galadriel - "Lady of Light" - grandmother of Lady Arwen, was an Elven Queen of extraordinary beauty, with her timeless features and golden river of hair.
Galadriel filling the Mirror in The Fellowship of the Ring film
Galadriel was highly praised for her unrivaled beauty, particularly that of her hair, which was a deep and radiant gold, shot with silver. It was said by the Elves of Tirion to have ensnared the light of the Two Trees of Valinor, Telperion and Laurelin, and possibly to have inspired the creation of the Silmarils by Fëanor. She was also the tallest of elf-women, standing at around 6 feet 4 inches, or 193 centimeters. Because of her wisdom and power, she had very important roles throughout the history of Middle-earth, especially during her time in Eregion and during the War of the Ring. She had a penchant for dressing in the purest white.She was known, especially in her younger days, as being quite prideful. However, this pride was tempered by her "noble and generous" spirit.
[...] and she grew to be tall beyond the measure even of the women of the Noldor; she was strong of body, mind, and will [...]  Yet deeper still there dwelt in her the noble and generous spirit of the Vanyar, and a reverence for the Valar that she could not forget.
Even among the Eldar she was accounted beautiful, and her hair was held a marvel unmatched. It was golden like the hair of her father and of her foremother Indis, but richer and more radiant, for its gold was touched by some memory of the starlike silver of her mother; and the Eldar said that the light of the Two Trees, Laurelin and Telperion, had been snared in her tresses.
—Unfinished Tales, "The History of Galadriel and Celeborn"
Regarding her decision to remain in Middle-earth, a passage says:
After the overthrow of Morgoth at the end of the First Age a ban was set upon her return, and she had replied proudly that she had no wish to do so.
—The Road Goes Ever On [note 1]
Galadriel possessed a tremendous amount of magical powers, and was said to be the greatest of the Ñoldor in that regard after Fëanor.
When she still lived in the Undying Lands, she had been a pupil of Yavanna and Aulë, and she later became a friend of Melian the Maia. Hence, it can be deduced that she had learned her powers from these three illustrious personages, though the nature of her magic is still not well-understood. In The Unfinished Tales, it is suggested that her powers of divnation and seeing into the minds of others were innate:
From her earliest years she had a marvellous gift of insight into the minds of others, but judged them with mercy and understanding, and she withheld her goodwill from none save only Fëanor. In him she perceived a darkness that she hated and feared, though she did not perceive that the shadow of the same evil had fallen upon the minds of all the Noldor, and upon her own.—Unfinished Tales, "The History of Galadriel and Celeborn"
The majority of Galadriel's powers were said to stem from the artifact she controlled: Nenya, the Ring of Water. However, in a letter to his friend Milton dating from 1951 Tolkien stated that Rings of Power could only enhance the "natural powers of the possessor" and not grant entirely new powers. In some tales, she was also depicted with the powers of communicating over vast distances, predicting the future, and even cloaking her mind from other tremendously powerful beings (she once stated that Sauron could not perceive her mind, though she could perceive his). It is also possible that her powers of divination were either derived from or accentuated by her mirror, which could reveal events of the past, present, and future.
However, due to her incredibly enigmatic nature, even the immensely skillful Saruman and an Elf as perceptive as Elrond found it difficult to understand her powers, and they were such to bring doubt to the minds of the non-Elven inhabitants of Middle-earth. Whatever they might have been, it must still be noted that Galadriel had used them for good: protecting Lórien from any attack. She also used this formidable power to destroy the very foundations of Dol Guldur (a fortress whose power was multiplied by Sauron's magic). Galadriel also possessed the skill of ósanwe (the ability to communicate with others through thoughts), this can be seen after the destruction of the One Ring, when Galadriel communicated mentally with Elrond and Gandalf on their return journey from Minas Tirith.
Besides her magical powers, Galadriel was also very wise and intelligent: she was one of the very few who were not fooled by Sauron in the Second Age, and therefore suggested to Celebrimbor to hide the Three Rings. She also refrained from using the powers of Nenya while the One Ring was in Sauron's possession, and only did so after the One Ring was lost (for it was only then that it was safe enough for her to do so). When Frodo offered her the One Ring, Galadriel managed to reject the undeniable temptation, for she was wise enough to know that, though she might start off with good intentions with the One Ring in her possession, she would only become a tyrant as terrible as Sauron in the end. This could be viewed as a testament to her excellent understanding of the seductive nature of power, as well as her awareness of her own personal limitations.
Galadriel was originally named Artanis ("noble woman"), her father-name, and Nerwen ("man-maiden"), her mother-name referring to her height and strength. Galadriel is the Sindarin translation of Telerin Quenya Alatáriel, the name given her by Celeborn, meaning "maiden crowned with a garland of bright radiance" in reference to her hair.
The name Galadhriel was used outside Lórien by the people who did not know the ancient days and Galadriel's history, confusing her name with the Elvish word galadh ("tree") and the name of the Galadhrim, the people of Lórien.
She is referred to as The Lady of Lórien, Lady of Light, The Lady of the Galadhrim, or The Lady of the Wood interchangeably. Within the realm of Lothlórien, she was referred to as simply Lady Galadriel or The Lady.
When she and Celeborn were being referred to collectively, they were known as The Lord and Lady.
Faramir of Gondor referred to her as a Mistress of Magic when Frodo and Sam were with him in Henneth Annûn.
Galadriel in Ralph Bakshi's 1978 adaptation.
In Ralph Bakshi's 1978 Lord of the Rings, Galadriel is voiced by Scottish actress Annette Crosbie with Jeri Lea Ray doing the modeling.
Galadriel is portrayed by Cate Blanchett in Peter Jackson's film trilogy. She appears in all three films as a supporting character.
The Lady Galadriel as portrayed by Cate Blanchett
Galadriel narrates the opening prologue to The Fellowship of the Ring, describing the War of the Ring and the initial defeat of Sauron. She is shown receiving one of the Elven Rings of Power. Galadriel appears in person later when the Fellowship arrive in Lórien, greeting them alongside her husband Celeborn. She speaks telepathically with Frodo and leads him to her mirror, in which he sees a vision of Sauron's victory. Galadriel warns Frodo that Boromir will try and take the One Ring, upon which Frodo offers the One Ring to her. In that moment, Galadriel herself is tempted by the Ring, but she is able to overcome the temptation and "pass the test." She gives Frodo a phial of light when the Fellowship departs Lothlórien.
In the extended edition, Galadriel and Celeborn give the other members of the Fellowship various gifts as well. Besides Frodo and Sam, she gives Merry and Pippin an Elven dagger, Aragorn a curved Elvish hunting knife, Legolas a Bow of the Galadhrim and three strands of her hair to Gimli.
In The Two Towers, Galadriel appears in a single scene, warning Elrond telepathically that the One Ring is tempting Faramir. She then urges him to send aid to the people of Rohan at Helm's Deep. Strangely, the Elves that do arrive at Helm's Deep under Haldir are from Lothlórien, not Rivendell. Although there is mention of osanwe ("thought speech") in Tolkien's writings, Galadriel's scenes from The Two Towers have no direct counterparts in the novels.
In The Return of the King, Galadriel appears in a vision to Frodo near Cirith Ungol, urging him to continue his quest. She also appears at the very end of the film alongside Elrond and Celeborn at the Grey Havens. She departs with them, Gandalf, Frodo, and Bilbo to Valinor.
Galadriel in The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey
Galadriel's role in Jackson's The Hobbit film trilogy is entirely invented for the adaptation, as she does not appear in the original novel. However, some of these scenes may have been based on material from The Unfinished Tales which accounts for what she was doing during the time when the events of The Hobbit took place. She appears in all three films as a supporting character.
Galadriel first appears in An Unexpected Journey at a meeting of the White Council alongside Elrond, Gandalf, and Saruman. She believes Gandalf when he claims that the Necromancer is becoming a bigger threat and that something must be done with Dol Guldur.
In The Desolation of Smaug, Galadriel telepathically encourages Gandalf to investigate the tombs of the Nine in the High Fells of Rhudaur and to confront the Necromancer.
Galadriel aiding a wounded Gandalf in Dol Guldur, surrounded by The Nine
In The Battle of the Five Armies, Galadriel rescues Gandalf from Dol Guldur. Initially, it seems that she has come alone; she disintegrates an Orc with a blast of magic from Nenya. However, she is quickly cornered by the spectral forms of the Nazgûl as the disembodied voice of Sauron begins taunting her in Black Speech. The Dark Lord mocks her for being alone in the shadow, a singular light in the dark.
However, Galadriel reveals that Saruman and Elrond have accompanied her to Dol Guldur, and the two battle the Ringwraiths while Galadriel attempts to heal Gandalf with a kiss, an action which drains her energy. Radagast arrives to take Gandalf away, and Galadriel resists Gandalf's plea to have her join him. After the Ringwraiths are defeated, Sauron himself manifests and restores the Nazgûl as he bears down on the White Council, threatening them with the fall of the West and the rise of Angmar. While Saruman and Elrond recoil in horror in the presence of the Dark Lord, Galadriel rises in her darker ethereal form to challenge Sauron.
She easily overpowers the Nazgûl and casts them away as her and Sauron engage in a duel of wills with the latter trying to assert his power. Galadriel, however, proves herself unyielding and declares Sauron as "Nameless, Faceless, and Formless" and demands that he returns to the Void form whence he came. Ultimately Galadriel overpowers Sauron, who flees into the East as an orb of fire. The encounter saps Galadriel's energy, however, and Saruman instructs her to retreat to Lórien while he promises to handle the threat of Sauron himself.
An alternate version of Galadriel is the most central character of Amazon Studios' series The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power, portrayed by Amelie Child Villiers as a child and Morfydd Clark as an adult.
Galadriel as a child, speaking to Finrod in Valinor
She is first seen as a child, while dwelling in Valinor, making a paper ship as her brother Finrod taught her. Finrod gave her counsel after preventing her from striking another child as retaliation for destroying the ship.
Many years passed, and, following the catastrophe in which Morgoth destroyed the Two Trees, Finrod joined his kindred in sailing to Middle-earth and waging war against Morgoth. At some point, while dancing in a glade, she met Celeborn, whom she soon married. After he left to take part in the War of the Jewels, however, he vanished, and was presumed dead. Though the Dark Lord was eventually defeated, his chief servant Sauron escaped, and Finrod took the lead in finding him. Sauron killed Finrod, however, and Galadriel pledged to continue his mission.
By the middle of the Second Age, Galadriel had led an expedition into Forodwaith to search for evidence of Sauron's whereabouts. Despite her companions' hesitancy and the harsh environment, an abandoned fortress of Morgoth is found, within which Galadriel and Thondir discover evidence of dark magic and an anvil bearing Sauron's sigil, still hot after centuries. Her company is attacked by a snow-troll, which Galadriel quickly slays. Upon announcing her intent to continue the expedition farther north, the others of her company refuse, and she unwillingly returns with them to Lindon.
On returning to Lindon, she is met by her friend Elrond, who, though glad to see her, warns her that the High King Gil-galad disapproves of her insistence that Sauron still poses a threat to Elf-kind. Galadriel agrees to hold her tongue, and is honored with the rest of her companions by the king, who gives them the gift of returning to Valinor. Galadriel leaves on the ship to Valinor with the others, but at the last moment before leaving the mortal realm, changes her mind and dives into the sea.
After some time, she is found by several castaways on a makeshift raft, one of whom identifies himself as "Halbrand", but in truth is Sauron in disguise. The castaways are terrified of the great sea-serpent that had destroyed their ship, and soon their fears are realized when the serpent returns and kills all but Halbrand, who retains the raft. Halbrand takes interest in Galadriel while remaining silent about his own story. Yet when a fierce storm arises and Galadriel is dragged under the surface by a weighted rope, Halbrand rescues her and the two survive, though the exertion left them weak. They then drift helplessly until they are found by a ship of the Númenóreans, helmed by Elendil.
Galadriel realizes the significance of an uncovered document
Elendil takes Galadriel and Halbrand back to Armenelos, capital of Númenor, and brings the two before Queen-regent Míriel. Galadriel immediately demands passage back to Middle-earth, inciting the ire of the Númenóreans, though Halbrand is able to negotiate a tentative peace while Míriel decides what to do. Míriel appoints Elendil to keep watch over Galadriel in the meantime, which initially irks the Elf until Elendil reveals himself to be an Elf-friend, and a speaker of Quenya. Elendil takes Galadriel to the great Hall of Lore at her request, and something of significance is soon discovered in its archives: an ancient document bearing the same sigil as was left on Finrod's body. From this document, Galadriel discovers that the sigil is a crude map signifying the region of the Southlands, which Sauron apparently intends to conquer as his own. She also discovers a document bearing the same insignia as is borne by Halbrand, indicating him to be the rightful king of the Southlands, though Halbrand says he took it off a dead man.
Returning to Armenelos, Galadriel is granted an audience with Míriel, and requests an army to counter Sauron in the Southlands. On being denied, Galadriel angrily demands an audience with Tar-Palantir, the actual ruler, and for this is thrown into prison, where Halbrand advises her to learn to be more nuanced in her approach. Soon, Pharazôn, Míriel's chief councilor, arrives to inform Galadriel she will be sent back alone to Middle-earth. Galadriel evades the guards and escapes, breaking into the tower where Tar-Palantir dwelt. Míriel had expected this and awaits her there, where Galadriel sees the aged king to be near the point of death. Míriel took Galadriel to a separate room where is kept a palantír and has her look into the artifact, which shows Galadriel the same vision of Númenor's destruction that Míriel had witnessed herself.
Galadriel thanks Halbrand upon departing Númenor
Nonetheless, Míriel makes Galadriel to depart alone as planned, though just as she enters her boat, the leaves of Nimloth began to fall, indicating a grave warning. Seeing this, Míriel changes her mind and announces that Númenor will send an army to the Southlands after all. In the days following, Galadriel assists in giving training to the recruit volunteers. Becoming aware that Halbrand desires not to go to Middle-earth but to remain in Númenor, Galadriel attempts to persuade him to accept the mantle of king, only after much argument succeeding. She departs Armenelos on the tenth day since Míriel's decision aboard one of three ships bound for Middle-earth.
Galadriel catches sight of Middle-earth's coast well before the Númenóreans do, and briefly meets Isildur. The following day, having crossed the Ephel Dúath, she, Halbrand, and the Númenórean cavalry ride to Tirharad, halting Adar's aggression, though not before he acquires the artifact he searched for: a dark hilt forged by Morgoth. She kills many Orcs at Tirharad, which Arondir and Bronwyn's refugees had fortified, and captures Adar with Halbrand's help, after entreating her horse to run quickly after him. She convinces Halbrand to spare Adar and takes him prisoner, learning of his origin as one of the original Elves corrupted by Morgoth, and of his claim to have killed Sauron. Galadriel nearly cuts Adar's throat, desiring justice, but is stopped by Halbrand, who she later thanks, and is thanked in return for the help Halbrand perceives having received from her.
Galadriel upon awakening from being rendered unconscious by Orodruin's eruption
Shortly after this, she and her allies realize they have been deceived, for Adar had switched the dark hilt with a decoy, and Waldreg had used the hilt to activate a mechanism causing Orodruin to erupt, sending forth flame and ash over all the Southlands. Though nearly smothered in ash, she survives the eruption and comes across Theo in the chaos, with whom she travels towards the Númenórean camp, both giving him counsel and helping him to evade Orcs along the way. Upon arriving at the camp, she learns of Míriel's plans to leave and return to Middle-earth, and of Halbrand's status. She finds he has been severely wounded in the abdomen, and concludes he needs Elvish medicine, and so rides with him to Eregion.
Galadriel reacts to "Halbrand" revealing himself to be Sauron
Galadriel arrives six days later in Ost-in-Edhil, where Halbrand receives medical attention and soon recovers, finding his way to Celebrimbor's forge and quickly gaining his trust by revealing his knowledge of metallurgy. Galadriel, however, becomes suspicious of Halbrand after Celebrimbor voices a number of phrases she first heard from Adar, who had heard them from Sauron. Halbrand continues to act kindly towards her and make advances in helping Celebrimbor in making a design from mithril that would keep the Elves from fading due to the Doom of Mandos. In the meantime, Galadriel discovers a document disproving Halbrand's claim as King of the Southlands, and she confronts him about his identity. Here Halbrand reveals himself to her as Sauron, and through a vision attempts to draw her to his side, arguing that he wishes to heal Middle-earth. Though persuasive, Galadriel ultimately rejects his offer, though she keeps his identity a secret so that Celebrimbor will go through with forging the needed artifacts. She opines to Celebrimbor that three rings are needed instead of Sauron's proposed two, and the Master-smith proceeds to forge the Three Rings: Vilya, Nenya, and Narya.
Galadriel was voiced by Marian Diamond in BBC's The Lord of the Rings 1981 radio series.
Galadriel in The Lord of the Rings Online
The name Galadriel has moved outside of Tolkien's work and into the wider world. Parents occasionally give it to their daughters. The Led Zeppelin songs Stairway to Heaven and The Battle of Evermore contain many references to Galadriel. The band Barclay James Harvest wrote a song entitled "Galadriel". Galadriel was the given name of the main character in the Katherine Paterson novel The Great Gilly Hopkins. The novel Panic describes a group of computer hackers known simply as "Galadriel Jones and the Elves". Since Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim was released, the Elven names of Galadriel,  Legolas, and Elrond have often been used by fans to name their characters.
Gandalf the Grey, later known as Gandalf the White, and originally named Olórin (Quenya; IPA: [oˈloːrin]), was an Istar (Wizard), dispatched to Middle-earth in the Third Age to combat the threat of Sauron. He joined Thorin II Oakenshield and his company to reclaim the Lonely Mountain from Smaug, helped form the Fellowship of the Ring to destroy the One Ring, and led the Free Peoples in the final campaign of the War of the Ring.
Gandalf as a Maia named Olórin before leaving the Undying Lands - by Annie Claudine
Originally called Olórin, he was accounted as the wisest of the Maiar. He was created by Ilúvatar before the Music of the Ainur, and was at the beginning of Time amongst the Ainur who entered into Eä. In his "youth" he became one of the Maiar who served Manwë, Varda, Irmo, and Nienna. He was associated with light and fire, much like Varda, yet his ways often took him to Nienna, from whom he learned pity and patience. He loved the Elves, but walked unseen among them, or wore the guise of an Elf, and sent them fair visions in their hearts that made them wiser. Throughout his life he followed the example of Nienna, talking pity on the sorrows of the Children of Ilúvatar and drawing those who listened to him out of despair.
When the Valar decided to send the Istari (also called Wizards) to Middle-earth to counsel and assist all those who opposed the Dark Lord Sauron, Manwë and Varda included Olórin among the five to be sent. At first, Olórin was nervous and described himself as too weak and afraid of Sauron. Manwë understood, and told Olórin that such was a reason why he should go, to overcome that fear. Furthermore, the One Ring, containing much of Sauron's power, presumably still existed somewhere. Thus, Manwë insisted that Olórin should go as the third, but Varda convinced him to send Olórin as the second instead. He agreed, and prepared for Olórin's departure from the Undying Lands with the other four, arriving about the same time that the Necromancer appeared in Mirkwood.
Gandalf, by Jay Johnstone
Olórin, like the other Wizards, took the shape of an old man. He was robed in grey and wandered about as a counsellor. At Mithlond he was welcomed by Glorfindel, his friend from Valinor (who had been sent earlier on a similar mission), and Círdan the shipwright who possessed Narya, one of the Three Elven Rings of Power. Círdan divined in Olórin a sense of strength and power despite his appearance as a bent and aged man. Círdan gave Narya to Olórin with a prediction of his future struggles with evil, and a promise that it would support and aid him in his labours.
He then began his sojourn in Middle-earth and over many centuries, he walked among the Elves as a stranger, learning from them and teaching them. Unlike Saruman, Olórin did not take up a single permanent residence and never went to the east, apparently restricting his activities to the Westlands of Middle-earth, where the remnants of the Dúnedain and the Eldar remained to oppose Sauron. He was known by many names during the long years he wandered: Elves named him Mithrandir, the "Grey Pilgrim", while the Men of Arnor named him Gandalf, which became his most common name. He was also known as Incánus (in the south), and Tharkûn to the Dwarves. He later revealed himself as one of the Istari, and eventually became known as not only the wisest but also the most powerful individual in that order.
"A Light in the Dark" by Matthew Stewart
A legend says that Gandalf was given by Yavanna the Elfstone of Eärendil, to bring to the peoples of Middle-earth as a token that the Valar had not forsaken them. He gave it to Galadriel, bearer of one of the three Elven Rings and mighty among the Eldar, remarked prophetically that she would in turn pass it to an individual who would also be called Elessar.
Ian McKellen as Gandalf in the late Third age
Around year TA 1100, the Istari and Eldar discovered that some evil entity resided in at Dol Guldur in Mirkwood; while some thought a Nazgûl had returned to torment the world, or some new evil was arising, Gandalf began to suspect that perhaps Sauron himself might have returned. As in the next two hundred years, evil continued to grow and spread, as well as the source directing it. Gandalf went to Dol Guldur in TA 2063 to discover its secret. However, the Necromancer fled upon Gandalf's arrival, preventing Gandalf from identifying him. After Gandalf's incursion, the evil there seemed to desist, and its absence allowed for some centuries of calmness.
That peaceful period was known as the Watchful Peace and lasted for almost four hundred years, but the Nazgûl had used this period to prepare for Sauron's return, in TA 2460. Realising the returning evil, Galadriel formed and reunited the White Council three years later composed of four members: herself, Gandalf, Saruman, and Elrond the Half-elf (who was the bearer of another of the Three Rings). Galadriel wished Gandalf to be the chief of the Council, but he refused the position, wishing to set down no roots and to maintain his independence; Saruman took this place instead because of his vast knowledge and skill. However, he later grew jealous and afraid of Gandalf, which was one of the reasons for his future betrayal.
During his wanderings in Eriador, Gandalf met and befriended the isolated and secretive people of the Hobbits in their country, the Shire. During the Long Winter of TA 2758 Gandalf came to their aid. It was then when he witnessed and admired the pity and courage that the humble Hobbits reserved in their hearts. 
He then passed onward but nevertheless would return to visit the Shire occasionally and participate in the Midsummer-eve parties of the Old Took, where he impressed young Hobbits with his fireworks, and his stories about Dragons, Goblins and princesses. He was thus known to be "responsible for so many quiet lads and lasses going off into the Blue for mad adventures". He also met a relatively adventurous Hobbit named Bilbo Baggins, although he was in fact far from "adventuresome."
Gandalf finds Thráin in the dungeons of Dol Guldur
When King Thráin II, a Dwarf of the royal line of Durin, disappeared on journey to Erebor, Gandalf looked for him. At some point after TA 2845 he entered the abandoned city of Khazad-dûm during this search. After this proved to be in vain, the Wizard exited through the Doors of Durin; however this experience did not help him know how to open the doors from the outside. In TA 2850, his quest led him once more to Dol Guldur, this time in secrecy. He found Thráin in the dungeons, who gave the Wizard his last possessions, the map and key to Erebor. Most importantly, he found out that the Necromancer was not a Nazgûl – it was Sauron himself, and he had taken the last of the Seven Rings from the Dwarf King; Sauron was gathering the remaining Rings of Power and possibly searching for his lost One Ring.
The White Council meeting on the question of Dol Guldur
Gandalf escaped Dol Guldur and returned to the White Council. After relating his discoveries, he urged the council to attack Sauron while the One Ring was still lost and while Sauron's power was not yet beginning to be restored . But Saruman said that it was better to watch and wait; that the One Ring had long ago rolled from Anduin to the Sea. The majority of the council agreed with Saruman. Elrond later privately told Gandalf he had a foreboding that the Ring would be found, and that the war to end the Age was coming. Indeed, Elrond added, he feared that it would end in darkness and despair. Gandalf encouraged him, saying there were many "strange chances," and that, "help oft shall come from the hands of the weak". Gandalf did not yet realize that Saruman now wanted the Ring for himself and was secretly searching for it along the banks of the River Anduin.
As time went on, the wizard became increasingly troubled by his knowledge of Sauron's resurgent strength. He knew that Sauron was already plotting war from Dol Guldur, and that as soon as he felt strong enough, he would attack Rivendell. Unfortunately, the only power left besides Rivendell to resist an attempt from Mirkwood to regain the lands of Angmar were the isolated Dwarves of the Iron Hills.
Over the years, Gandalf became concerned about the weak state of the North. Smaug the dragon had destroyed both the Kingdom under the Mountain and the town of Dale, and the wizard feared that Sauron might use the desolation around Erebor to regain the northern passes in the mountains and the old lands of Angmar. Gandalf knew that exiled Dwarf King of Durin's Folk, Thorin II Oakenshield, planned to battle against Smaug, but he knew that it would not be enough. In TA 2941, while staying the night in Bree, Gandalf happened across the Dwarf King. Thorin initiated conversation; he had been having a strange feeling urging him to seek Gandalf. The same was intrigued, for he had thought to seek Thorin as well. They found they were taking the same road for a while (Thorin passing through the Shire on his way to the Ered Luin), and they agreed to travel together. Thorin wanted advice, and Gandalf in turn wanted to discuss the dragon Smaug with Thorin.
Ultimately, Gandalf concocted a plan wherein Thorin could destroy Smaug and recover his family fortune, albeit with a "burglar" of Gandalf's own choosing.
Gandalf invites Bilbo Baggins on an adventure
Feeling that a Hobbit should be involved, Gandalf remembered Bilbo Baggins. At first he found only Holman Cotton as Bilbo had left on the occasion of the Elven new year, something that persuaded Gandalf that Bilbo was the right person for the job. He visited Bilbo later, bringing along the kinsmen of Thorin. In the end, Gandalf convinced the reluctant Baggins to become a burglar for Thorin. Gandalf then accompanied Thorin and Company to Rivendell. During the journey Gandalf was instrumental in saving the travellers' lives from several calamities. He saved them from a trio of Stone-trolls, and later obtained the legendary sword Glamdring from their Troll-hoard; Gandalf bore it thenceforth.
He also helped Thorin and Company through the Misty Mountains; when unknowingly they camped in the Front Porch of the Goblin-town, the same captured the whole company except Gandalf, who surprised them much later, killing the Great Goblin and then leading the Dwarves to the exit. It was during this time that Bilbo obtained a "magic ring". Bilbo initially claimed he "won" it from the creature "Gollum" while the company was under the Misty Mountains. The Ring conferred invisibility on Bilbo when he wore it, and he kept it secret from Gandalf for some time.
On their escape out, the Company was saved by the Eagles of the Misty Mountains; Gandalf once had healed the Great Eagle from a poisoned wound, and thenceforth they became friends. The Eagles picked them up to their eyrie, and the next day they dropped them off on the Carrock.
Gandalf then sought the hospitality of Beorn, persuading him to welcome and host the whole Company in his hall. But then he left the quest prior to its completion; after leading the Company to the outskirts of the Forest Gate, he gave them some final advice before they entered Mirkwood, and went to attend other obligations. The White Council had met under the gravest of circumstances: Sauron's power was returning, even without his Ring. Gandalf at last convinced the Council to attack Dol Guldur, to which even Saruman agreed (as by now he feared Sauron as a rival, and wished to delay his search for the Ring). Gandalf joined his peers in assailing Dol Guldur, ridding Mirkwood of the Necromancer's presence, who fled to Mordor to his long-prepared stronghold of Barad-dûr. When he was about to finish his task, news about what happened to Thorin's Company in Mirkwood reached him, and realized that the instructions he gave did not help them; they had lost their way, and then vanished due to the encounter with the Wood-elves, who had captured them. He was anxious to get back to them as soon as possible.
Meanwhile Thorin's quest was successful: Erebor was retaken and Smaug was killed, but when Gandalf finally arrived to the area, he found the Dwarves of Erebor and the Iron Hills preparing for an attack by the Lake-men and the Elves of Mirkwood. He was with Bard and Thranduil and thus revealed his presence, trying to reason with Thorin. When the attack was beginning, Gandalf halted them, to warn that the Orcs and Wargs were coming to claim the treasure. He invited Dáin Ironfoot for council, and soon Dwarves, Elves and Men formed an alliance, and defeated the Orcs of the Misty Mountains in the Battle of Five Armies.
King Thorin was mortally wounded and, after his funeral and the reestablishment of Erebor under Dáin, Bilbo and Gandalf followed their way back; they celebrated Yule at Beorn's, and then returned to Rivendell, where he discussed with Elrond the events of Dol Guldur and the Lonely Mountain. Gandalf had accomplished his immediate goal, which was to destroy Smaug, since he could have been used to disastrous effect by Sauron. A large number of Orcs and Wargs also were killed in the North, removing threats to Rivendell and Lothlórien. The two agreed that it would be better if the Necromancer were banished from the world altogether.
As Gandalf and Bilbo passed by the site of their former encounter with the stone-trolls, they made sure to recover the gold of the troll-hoard they had buried before the Wizard left to perform other duties and Bilbo returned to the Shire. Gandalf, for his part, found himself amazed by the Hobbit; until then, the Wise had paid no attention to Hobbits and knew little of them. For the rest of his sojourn in Middle-earth, Gandalf took a special interest in Hobbits, and particularly in the Baggins family.
The White Council's last meeting, as illustrated by Alan Lee
Despite the Council's hopes, Sauron was not weakened by this attack. He had foreseen the move that drove him from Mirkwood, and his retreat was but a feint. Ten years after the attack, Sauron declared himself openly in Mordor in 2951 and rebuilt his fortress of Barad-dûr. The White Council met for one last time in 2953 to debate the fate of the Rings of Power. Saruman quieted his peers claiming to have the knowledge that the One Ring was lost in the Belegaer. After their meeting, Saruman, jealous and afraid of Gandalf, set spies to watch all his movements; this would affect the peaceful Hobbits, as Saruman thus discovered the existence and noted Gandalf's interest in the Shire, and started sending agents to Bree and the Southfarthing.
In 2956, Gandalf met Aragorn, the hidden Heir of Isildur, and soon became friends with him. From that point on Aragorn and Gandalf often worked together towards a common end - the defeat of Sauron.
During this period Gandalf visited the Shire frequently, especially his friend Bilbo Baggins, and his younger nephew, Frodo. He noted Bilbo's unusual youthfulness, despite his advancing age; the suspicious "magic ring" that Bilbo had acquired during his adventure began to weigh on his mind. Gandalf recalled the deceit Bilbo used in originally claiming it for his own -- Bilbo had later admitted to stealing it from Gollum. Gandalf could see that Bilbo was now very preoccupied with the Ring and had begun to suspect that the same was indeed a ring of power. Such un-hobbitlike behaviour aroused his suspicions.
Gandalf returning to the Shire in Peter Jackson's The Fellowship of the Ring (2001)
In 3001, Bilbo planned what would become known as his Farewell Birthday Party, and at the culmination of the hobbit's speech, Bilbo put on the mysterious Ring and disappeared, as a joke on his neighbors. Later as he was bidding farewell to Gandalf, who had known about his plans to leave, Bilbo began to change his mind about leaving his Ring to Frodo, as he had earlier agreed. When Gandalf tried to persuade him to leave it, Bilbo became hostile and accused Gandalf of trying to steal the Ring for his own benefit, which he referred to as his "precious." Horrified by Bilbo's outburst, Gandalf stood to his full height and projected his power, frightening the hobbit. This brought Bilbo back to his senses; he apologized, admitted that the Ring had been troubling him lately, and left it behind. Bilbo and Gandalf bid each other goodbye before Bilbo left the Shire for his journey. Before leaving the Shire, he spoke with Frodo and emphatically warned Frodo not to use the Ring.
Gandalf in the library at Minas Tirith, by Jay Johnstone
Keen now to find out more about Gollum, he sought Aragorn's help to capture him. Studying the records in Minas Tirith, he found the Scroll of Isildur and pieced together the missing history of the One Ring. In TA 3017 on his way back to the Shire he got word from the Galadhrim that Aragorn had finally captured Gollum and he went to Mirkwood to meet him. For days he interrogated him in order to verify what he already suspected. A great fear came over him when he learned that Gollum had been to the Tower of Barad-dûr. Sauron had tortured Gollum and learned not only of the "magic ring", but also the names "Shire" and "Baggins". Gandalf left Mirkwood soon after, and left Gollum with the Wood-elves of Northern Mirkwood. He now returned in haste to the Shire, certain that Frodo's ring was not simply a ring of power: it was the One Ruling Ring of Sauron.
Gandalf telling Frodo of the One Ring
Upon returning to the Shire, Gandalf immediately went to Frodo and confirmed his suspicions by throwing the Ring into Frodo's hearth fire, which revealed, in Black Speech, the inscription upon the Ring. Gandalf then told a dumbfounded Frodo about the One Ring and its history, and how Sauron would seek to regain it. Instructing Frodo to go to Rivendell with the Ring, Gandalf told him to make arrangements to leave the Shire quietly.
While in the Shire, he had a sense of foreboding; in the aftermath of Sauron's assault on Osgiliath, Gandalf heard disturbing news about war in Gondor and a Black Shadow. He started wandering around Eriador, hearing news from the refugees who had a fear they could not speak about, until he met Radagast the Brown who brought a message from Saruman that he must seek him at once; and a warning that the Ringwraiths were looking for the Shire. He went to The Prancing Pony at Bree. Believing that he would not be able to return to Frodo in time, he wrote a letter, urging him to move as soon as possible for Rivendell, and seek a "Strider" whose real name was Aragorn, along with a riddle to identify him; Gandalf would then try to catch up with them when available. He also instructed Barliman Butterbur to send the letter to Hobbiton and to expect a Mr. Baggins that would come under the name of "Mr. Underhill". He left the inn, but Barliman would forget to send the letter.
Soon thereafter Gandalf arrived at Isengard. At their meeting, Saruman finally exposed his own betrayal by revealing his desire for the One Ring. He offered to his "old friend and helper" that they take the Ring for themselves and seize power from Sauron. Gandalf rejected this with horror, and was imprisoned by Saruman on the pinnacle of Orthanc. Gwaihir, Lord of the Eagles, soon arrived and helped Gandalf escape. Gwaihir's real purpose for visiting Orthanc was to report a sighting of the Nazgûl, as Radagast had appealed to him to do so earlier on. Gandalf knew he must return quickly to the Shire, as Frodo (and the Ring) were in grave danger from both Sauron's Nazgûl and now Saruman's treacherous desire for the Ring.
Gandalf hurriedly went to Rohan, desiring to find a strong steed; there he obtained Shadowfax from King Théoden, who later resented the gift. This mighty horse and Gandalf forged a special bond, and Gandalf made quick use of Shadowfax's incredible strength and endurance.
Gandalf sped to the Shire. Fortunately, Frodo had already left the Shire without waiting for Gandalf, and was seeking the refuge of Rivendell. Upon arrival Gandalf learned that the Nazgûl, arrayed as Black Riders, had been searching the area. Dismayed, he set out for Bree; Barliman apologised to Gandalf for forgetting to send the letter, worried that the hobbits had left with Strider, the suspicious Ranger. But for Gandalf this was a hope which far exceeded his expectations. After congratulating a puzzled Barliman, and blessing his beer, Gandalf then made for Weathertop, a high point in the region, to observe the surrounding area.
Gandalf fighting the Nazgûl, as illustrated by Ted Nasmith
There he was assaulted at night by the Nazgûl, but drove them off after a great battle of light and flame. These phenomena were seen by Aragorn and the hobbits from afar, without knowing it was Gandalf. Before leaving, he marked some stones with the cirth G for them to find, then fled east, drawing four of the Ringwraiths after him.
Several days later, Frodo, Aragorn, and company stayed at Weathertop and were confronted by the remaining five Nazgûl. Despite their escape, Frodo was stabbed in the process by the Lord of the Nazgûl with a Morgul-knife. Gandalf was able to evade the four Nazgûl and successfully reach Rivendell and was welcomed by Glorfindel. However, several days later, an injured Frodo arrived at the Ford of Bruinen, though the Nazgûl pursued him all the way there. Gandalf, along with Elrond, saved Frodo from the Nazgûl by enchanting the water and sweeping them away.
Elrond called a council after Frodo was healed to consider the momentous decision regarding the Ring. There Gandalf explained to the others how Saruman had imprisoned him and how the White Wizard was creating his own army of Orcs to rival Sauron's. By chance, representatives of most of the free peoples happened to be in Rivendell already for various reasons. Elrond and Gandalf advised that the Ring should be destroyed in the fires of Mount Doom, where it was made. Others dissented or objected, but eventually submitted to Gandalf's plan. Ultimately, Elrond appointed the Fellowship of the Ring as nine walkers, numerically set against Sauron's nine Nazgûl. The relatively small number reflected the realisation by Elrond and the other council members that the Quest of Mount Doom would not rely upon strength of arms, but on stealth and good fortune. Gandalf was chosen to lead the company, which included Aragorn, Boromir of Gondor, Legolas the Elf, Gimli the Dwarf, and the hobbits Frodo, Samwise Gamgee, Peregrin Took, and Meriadoc Brandybuck.
Gandalf leading the Fellowship through Eregion
Several obstacles stood in the company's way. The vast Misty Mountains had to be crossed, for Gandalf was determined not to lead the company near Isengard. Gandalf decided to take a southern route to the Redhorn Pass and there to cross the Misty Mountains, traversing the mountain range and avoiding Isengard. When this attempt failed due to a terrible storm he then decided to take the Fellowship through the ruins of Moria, where the remains of the great Dwarf city of Khazad-dûm was now a labyrinth of abandoned tunnels under the mountains. Others in the company were loathe enter the maze, as it was now the lair of Orcs and something known only as "Durin's Bane".
At the Doors of Durin on the west side of the mountains, Gandalf, after some delay, spoke the password and led the company into the dark. Having been in Moria on an earlier perilous errand, he was somewhat familiar with the underground passages. Eventually the party came to the Chamber of Mazarbul, where Gandalf read the Book of Records, which revealed the fate of Balin, the leader of an ill-fated attempt to re-colonise Moria. Soon after, the party was attacked by Orcs, and forced to flee the chamber. By then Gandalf was well aware of their location, and he led the party quickly towards the eastern exit.
You cannot pass," he said. The Orcs stood still, and a dead silence fell. "I am a servant of the Secret Fire, wielder of the flame of Anor. You cannot pass. The dark fire will not avail you, flame of Udûn. Go back to the Shadow! You cannot pass.—The Lord of the Rings, The Fellowship of the Ring, Book II, Chapter 5: "The Bridge of Khazad-dûm"
Gandalf and the Balrog
Unfortunately Durin's Bane caught up to the group at the Bridge of Khazad-dûm. Gandalf and Legolas immediately realised what it was: a Balrog of Morgoth, a servant of the first Dark Lord. In a spectacular display of bravery Gandalf faced the demon and broke the bridge both stood upon, leaving the beast to fall into a seemingly bottomless chasm. But the Balrog's whip lashed out, and grasped Gandalf by the knees, causing him to fall into the pit. While falling, Gandalf shouted "Fly, you fools" and vanished into the abyss.
Gandal battling the Balrog on Durin's Tower
Yet Gandalf did not die; he and the Balrog fell for a long time, and the wizard was burned by the Balrog's fire. Then they plunged into a deep lake in the depths of the mountain, which Gandalf later said was cold as the tide of death and almost froze his heart. They fought in the water until finally the Balrog fled into dark tunnels, where the world was gnawed by nameless things, older even than Sauron. Gandalf pursued the creature until it led him to the spiralling Endless Stair, and they climbed it until they reached Durin's Tower in the living rock of Zirakzigil, the pinnacle of the Silvertine above the clouds. There they fought, until at last Gandalf threw down his enemy, and the Balrog broke the mountain-side as it fell. Then darkness took Gandalf, and he passed away. His body lay on the peak. The entire battle, from the confrontation on the Bridge of Khazad-dûm to the mutual demise of the Balrog and Gandalf, had taken ten days.
Then darkness took me, and I strayed out of thought and time, and I wandered far on roads that I will not tell... Naked I was sent back – for a brief time, until my task is done. And naked I lay upon the mountain-top. … There I lay staring upward, while the stars wheeled over, and each day was as long as a life-age of the earth.—The Lord of the Rings, The Two Towers, Book Three, Chapter V: "The White Rider"
But Gandalf's spirit did not depart Middle-earth forever at this time. As the only one of the five Istari to stay true to his errand, Olórin/Gandalf was sent back to mortal lands by Eru, and he became Gandalf once again. Yet, as he was now the sole emissary of the Valar to Middle-earth, he was granted the power to "reveal" more of his inner Maiar strength. This naked power that lay within him was seldom used during the remainder of his time in Middle-earth, as his mission was essentially the same: to support and succor those who opposed Sauron. Nevertheless, when Gandalf's wrath was kindled his "unveiled" strength was such that few of Sauron's servants could withstand him.
Three days later he was found by the windlord Gwaihir, Lord of the Eagles, who had been sent by Galadriel to find him. Gandalf was carried to Caras Galadhon in Lothlórien, where he was healed, given a new staff, and clothed in white, and thus became Gandalf the White. He soon learned that Frodo and Sam had left the Fellowship and were attempting the quest of Mount Doom without the others, and was greatly gladdened to hear that Sam had accompanied Frodo.
Gandalf confronting Théoden, controlled by Saruman
As Frodo was beyond his assistance now, Gandalf promptly went south to Fangorn Forest, where he met the Three Hunters, Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli, and gave them messages from Galadriel. Then he called forth Shadowfax, and rode with them to Edoras. There he found that Saruman's spy Gríma Wormtongue had deceived King Théoden into hopeless impotence. Gandalf quickly deposed Wormtongue and encouraged Théoden to ride west to war against Saruman. Gandalf by now was keenly aware that the great war to end the age was beginning; if Saruman conquered Rohan then Gondor would be alone with enemies on all sides.
Keep well the Lord of the Mark, till I return. Await me at Helm's Gate. Farewell!—Gandalf to Aragorn and Éomer and the men of the king's household
Gandalf the White returns, at Helm's Deep
At Gandalf's encouragement King Théoden went west to the Hornburg where he was quickly besieged; Gandalf then searched for Erkenbrand and the scattered forces of the Westfold, which he later found and led to the Deep, thus breaking the siege. Meanwhile, the Ents (along with the Hobbits Merry and Pippin) moved against Saruman and sent Huorns against the Orcs, resulting in the utter ruin of the outer walls of Isengard and the complete annihilation of Saruman's Orcs. After the battle, Gandalf went to Orthanc with Théoden, Aragorn, and a small group. There Saruman rejected Gandalf's offer of forgiveness with contempt. Gandalf then broke Saruman's staff and cast him from the Istari Order and the White Council. Gandalf imposed a strict watch on Isengard by the Ents and then advised King Théoden to ride to Gondor's defense as soon as possible. The wizard's mind had already turned to Gondor and the coming climactic battle in the east.
Gandalf saves the Osgiliath force
As a 'reward' for Pippin, who had foolishly gazed into a palantír, Gandalf took the Hobbit with him to Minas Tirith, the last bastion of the west. Soon after arriving, Gandalf confronted Denethor II, the Ruling Steward, and learned that he was near despair over the death of his eldest son, Boromir. Pippin entered the Steward's service in payment of the debt that he and Merry owed, the death of Boromir. Ostensibly they were allies, but the Steward treated Gandalf with scorn and suspicion. When Faramir, the Steward's younger son, returned from Osgiliath and was attacked by Nazgûl, Gandalf upon Shadowfax drove them away by revealing the power within him; later Faramir told him that Frodo and Sam were still alive and headed towards Mordor.
Minas Tirith was soon besieged by a vast force from Mordor, led by the Witch-king of Angmar. Faramir having received a wound from a poisoned dart in the retreat from Osgiliath, lay near death inside the Tower. Still, Gandalf encouraged the men of Minas Tirith to have hope, and dispelled the fear of the Ringwraiths by his very presence. But Sauron's catapults hurled flaming bolts upon the city; soon the first circle of the city burned unchecked. Denethor now lost all heart as the city burned and his only remaining son hovered near death; he abandoned his leadership of the city. Gandalf then took it upon himself to direct the defense in cooperation with Prince Imrahil of Dol Amroth. When the gigantic ram Grond destroyed the Great Gate of Minas Tirith, Gandalf placed himself alone at the ruined gateway. The Witch-king then appeared in the midst of the blasted gate upon a black horse and threatened Gandalf with death; but Gandalf did not move — seated upon Shadowfax he defied the mightiest of Sauron's minions. However, the stand-off ended inconclusively, as the morning arrived along with the host of the Rohirrim. Hearing the horns of the Riders of Rohan, the Witch-king departed.
But Gandalf did not pursue his foe, for Pippin brought him news that Denethor was about to commit suicide in the Houses of the Dead, burning himself and his son Faramir on a pyre like the heathen Kings of old. Gandalf rushed to stop this madness and was able to save Faramir, but not Denethor, whose despair and grief had overcome his mind. Gandalf also learned how it was that Denethor's will had been broken: Denethor clutched a palantír in his hands as he burned. Clearly Denethor had been using the stone's special properties for some time — extending his vision far beyond those of men's eyes, but also wrestling in thought with Sauron. And even though Sauron could not completely overwhelm Denethor's mind, his courage was daunted by knowledge of the vast might of Mordor. Thus the shadow entered into the capital of Gondor.
Nevertheless, and against all hope, the siege was broken. Éowyn of Rohan and the hobbit Merry defeated the Witch-king, whose last wail was heard by many as he was reduced to impotence. Soon after, Aragorn arrived with a large valour of Men from the southern fiefs upon a captured Corsair fleet from Umbar. The forces of the men of the west then utterly defeated Sauron's attack against Minas Tirith, relieving the city and killing virtually all of the invaders. Gandalf's carefully laid plans and words of wisdom, along with acts of heroism not seen since the elder days, had defeated Sauron's first move.
In Minas Tirith, Gandalf was selected by Aragorn, Imrahil, and Éomer (the Captains of the West) to be their leader in the coming final battles. This would be the culmination of Gandalf's efforts in Middle-earth. Fully aware that the west would stand or fall on the outcome of Frodo's mission, he advised the lords to launch an attack against the Morannon, thereby drawing Sauron's eye away from Frodo's likely location. This plan surely would result in a catastrophic loss for the outnumbered army, but it gave Frodo a chance to achieve the quest of Mount Doom.
Gandalf in the final battle at the Black Gate of Mordor
Led by Gandalf and Aragorn, the Army of the West crossed the Anduin and marched north, pausing occasionally to announce their coming and to dispatch small numbers of men to lesser tasks. Upon arriving at the Black Gate, the forces halted and prepared for battle. As they ordered their companies, the foul Mouth of Sauron rode forth to parley with them; he revealed Frodo's mithril coat and Sam's Barrow-blade and implied that their owner was captured and tortured. The emissary of Sauron then proposed that the forces of the west surrender; Gandalf however was undaunted, and, seizing his friend's belongings, rejected Sauron's offer. In shock, the Mouth of Sauron turned back towards the Black Gate, which slowly opened to reveal a vast army of Orcs and Trolls advancing on the lords of the west. Sauron's trap was sprung.
Yet Sauron himself became the victim of Gandalf's trap. Unbeknownst to all, Frodo and Sam had succeeded in scaling Mount Doom and even as the Battle of the Black Gate began Frodo stood at the Cracks of Doom. But the power and lure of the Ring finally overcame his will and he placed the Ring upon his finger, claiming it as his own. Immediately the Nazgûl were summoned by their lord, as he in terror realized his blunder: his enemies intended to destroy his Ring.
Gandalf with Gwaihir rescues Frodo and Sam
But Gandalf's foresight proved accurate again as the creature Gollum, who had been doggedly following the Ring-bearer, seized the Ring from Frodo, and, while celebrating his reunion with "his precious," unwittingly fell into the fires of Orodruin. The Ring was unmade as the fiery mountain erupted. The tower of Barad-dûr, the Black Gate and the Towers of the Teeth began to collapse, their foundations crumbling, the Ring-wraiths burned out like shooting stars, and Sauron was reduced to a mere shadow of malice, never to torment the world again. With Sauron gone, his forces scattered like frightened insects; the Men of the West now set upon them with fury. Gandalf announced the success of the Ring-bearer and the end of Sauron; the quest had been fulfilled. Seeing that victory was achieved, Gandalf then mounted on Gwaihir the Eagle for a third time, and set out to see if Frodo and Samwise had survived the tumults of Mount Doom. To his great relief, the two were found on the slopes of Orodruin, clinging to life amid the volcanic eruptions. The great quest was over.
In Minas Tirith, Gandalf and the remaining members of the Fellowship reunited. At the coronation of King Elessar, Gandalf (at Aragorn’s request) set the crown upon the King’s head, and declared "Now come the days of the King, and may they be blessed while the thrones of the Valar endure!". Thus Gandalf ushered in the new age of Men. Not long after Gandalf led Aragorn to the High Hallow on the upper slopes of Mindolluin and there they found a sapling of the White Tree of Gondor, a sign of the renewal that was to come.
After the coronation and wedding of Aragorn to Arwen, Gandalf left with the rest of the remaining Fellowship on the journey home. For Gandalf, it was his last long journey in Middle-earth. His errand had been fulfilled; Sauron had been defeated. He said farewell to his friends one by one until at last only the four Hobbits remained at his side. At the borders of the Shire he, too, turned away. He left the Hobbits to settle with the Shire, for the shattered pieces of evil still remaining in the world were no longer his concern, and went to talk to "moss gatherer" Tom Bombadil.
Departing from Middle-earth
What Gandalf did during the next two years is unknown; it is possible that his "long talk" with Bombadil was just that. At any rate, on September 29 3021, he met Frodo at the Grey Havens ready to take a White Ship over the sea to Aman. He wore Narya openly on his finger, and Shadowfax was beside him (perhaps even to take ship with him). His mission was over, and his homecoming after more than 2000 years was nigh. He bade farewell to Samwise, Merry, and Pippin (the latter two of whom he had forewarned of the passage), then boarded the ship beside Frodo, Bilbo, Elrond, and was never seen again in Middle-earth.
The ship passed west upon the sea, and then took the hidden straight path to Valinor: Gandalf became Olórin once more. There, presumably, he dwells still in the gardens of Irmo. Olórin, the wisest of the Maiar and the sole Istar to remain true to his mission, had successfully kindled the hearts of the free people in Middle-earth to overcome the evil of their time. In a large way, it was his victory.
The name Gandalf means "Elf of the wand" or "Wand-elf", from old northern Mannish.
Within Tolkien's legendarium, "Gandalf" is a mysterious name of the meaning "Wand-Elf" (alternatively cane/staff) in old northern Mannish. Most denizens of Middle-earth incorrectly assumed Gandalf was a Man (human), although he was really a Maia spirit (equivalent to an angel).
The name Gandalf is originally from the "Dvergatal", a list of Dwarf-names found in the Völuspá poem of Norse Mythology, from which the names of Thorin and his fellow Dwarves were also drawn.
Two names that were later discarded were Shorab (or Shorob) that was a name of unclear language and meaning used in the East, while in the south he was known as Forlond (or Forlong).
Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgment. For even the very wise cannot see all ends.—The Lord of the Rings, The Fellowship of the Ring, "The Shadow of the Past"
The Old Norse name "Gandalfr" appears in the list of Dwarves in the Völuspá of the Elder Edda; the name means "cane-elf," or "wand-elf." J.R.R. Tolkien took the name along with the Dwarves' names when he wrote The Hobbit in the 1930s. He came to regret the creation of this "rabble of eddaic-named Dwarves, [...] invented in an idle hour" (The Return of the Shadow, pg. 452), since it forced him to come up with an explanation of why Old Norse names should be used in Third Age of Middle-earth. He solved the dilemma in 1942 by the explanation that Old Norse was a translation of the language of Dale. The figure of Gandalf has other influences from Germanic mythology, particularly Odin in his incarnation as "the Wanderer", an old man with one eye, a long white beard, a wide brimmed hat, and a staff. Tolkien states that he thinks of Gandalf as an "Odinic wanderer" in a letter of 1946.
Gandalf is also similar to Väinämöinen, a Bard in Finnish mythology.
Gandalf's equivalence to Merlin the Magician, of English Mythology, is discussed in episode two of the 2014 documentary Looking for the Hobbit,featuring French Arthurian expert Nicholas Mezzalira and Medieval specialist Leo Carruthers.
Der Berggeist
Tolkien had a postcard labelled Der Berggeist ("the mountain spirit"), and on the paper cover in which he kept it, he wrote "origin of Gandalf" at some point. The postcard reproduces a painting of a bearded figure, sitting on a rock under a pine tree in a mountainous setting. He wears a wide-brimmed round hat, and a long cloak and a white fawn is nuzzling his upturned hands.
Humphrey Carpenter in his Biography said that Tolkien had bought the postcard during his 1911 holiday in Switzerland. However, Manfred Zimmerman (1983) discovered that the painting was by German artist Josef Madlener and dates to the late 1920s. Carpenter concluded that Tolkien was probably mistaken about the origin of the postcard. Tolkien must have acquired the card at some time in the early 1930s, at a time when The Hobbit had already begun to take shape.
The original painting was auctioned at Sotheby's in London on July 12, 2005 for 84,000. The previous owner had been given the painting by Madlener in the 1940s and recalled that he had stated the mountains in the painting's background were the Dolomites.
Gandalf is often described in The Lord of the Rings as quick to anger, and equally quick to laugh. His deep wisdom and compassion clearly derived from the patience he learned in Valinor, just as his care for all creatures of good will must have come from his strong sense of compassion for the weak. Both his patience and sense of kindness were revealed again and again, extending even to the servants of his enemies.
Keen observers of Gandalf often detected a veiled power, usually revealed in his eyes, which appeared deep and wise. He was alternately affectionate and brusque; he often surprised others with his bluntness when time was of the essence. Gandalf consistently upbraided foolish behaviour, but also richly rewarded those who acted with good intentions.
Hobbits appealed to him more than to the other Wizards, and he went often to the Shire for respite from errands. His attachment was likely because the Shire was of more bliss and peaceful than other inhabited realms of Middle-earth.
Gandalf's appearance in The Hobbit film trilogy
Gandalf is described as an old man with a pointed blue hat, a long grey cloak, and a silver scarf. He had a long white beard and bushy eyebrows that stuck out beyond the brim of the hat.
After he is resurrected, the change of his signature colour from grey to white is significant, for he was sent back to replace the corrupted head of the Order of Wizards and leader of the White Council Saruman as the Chief of the Order of Wizards. In the book, he says that he has himself become what Saruman should have been.
Círdan the Shipwright seemed to have foreseen this, for he entrusted the care of Narya, the Ring of Fire (one of the Three Rings of the Elves) to Gandalf rather than Saruman.
Gandalf was one of the wisest and most knowledgeable beings in Middle-earth, believed by Galadriel to be more worthy than Saruman in leading the White Council, though he was less mighty in magic, until his resurrection. He had extensive knowledge of many languages and writing systems used in Middle-earth, as well as in the history and customs of several of its peoples. He considered himself the greatest scholar of Hobbit traditions. His long journeys allowed him to meet many influential and powerful individuals and form lasting bonds with them. The Hobbits knew him as a masterful crafter of firecrackers.
Outside of the Shire, however, Gandalf the Grey was revered as one of the most powerful and wisest beings to tread Middle-earth, although he was wary of confronting Saruman and Sauron directly as Gandalf the Grey, and admitted the latter was still more powerful after his rebirth. He was considered the most powerful member of the Fellowship of the Ring, as well as, according to Aragorn, its leader, not in small part thanks to his encyclopedic knowledge. His great intelligence allowed him to accurately guess the thoughts of others and made him perhaps the preeminent architect of Sauron's defeat. Moreover, Gandalf was skilled at telling men things that were true from a certain point of view, such as when he scammed Háma into allowing him to bring his staff before the king.
Armed with an Elven blade, Gandalf was as valiant a fighter as the other swordsmen in the Fellowship, in no way hindered by his elderly appearance when fighting or riding.  Gandalf reaped Orcs and other servants of evil with his blade, and slew the Balrog in a duel, though he perished as well. He is rendered even more formidable by his magic.  Gandalf killed a squad of Goblins with lightning during the quest to slay Smaug, then hurled lightning and fire at the Nazgûl when he was attacked on Weathertop--something noticed for miles around and that seared the battlefield. Gandalf described himself as "a servant of the Secret Fire, wielder of the flame of Anor". Coincidentally, many of his spells were based on light and fire. He was able to light a faggot of wet wood simply with a touch of his staff, which he considered distinctive enough that any onlooker would recognize his handiwork. Gandalf purged the room of the Great Goblin with blue glowing smoke which scattered piercing white sparks to kill the Orcs.  He could cause the tip of his staff to glow with bright white light so as to see in the dark and increase the radiance at will, as demonstrated in Moria. Gandalf could conjure sparks, such as to light pinecones on fire, and could choose any color for his flames.  When fighting a pack of wolves, he set fire to all treetops on a hill with a single blazing branch, and the air became so hot that an arrow burned mid-flight. At the cost of shattering his staff, he was able to conjure a sea of white flames that caused the bridge under the feet of Durin's Bane to crumble.
Gandalf the Grey has command over a great array of spells for all situations, such as magically healing wounds (though he stated Elrond was a better healer), being able to enhance Elrond's flood spell by giving the water the appearance of galloping knights, and seal doors shut or open them, although it should be noted that he was unable to open the Doors of Durin prior to remembering the password. During the Battle of Five Armies, Gandalf amplified his voice to be heard by the armies of Men, Elves, and Dwarves. Gandalf could control the color and shape of smoke, such as to make a cloud of smoke float around himself.  Moreover, Gandalf could manipulate the taste of beer, and he stated that Durin's Bane nearly overpowered him with its counterspell, forcing him to rely on a word of Command that resulted in a blast which caused the ceiling of the room beyond the door to collapse.  Gandalf also could make illusions such as when he covered Bilbo's use of the One Ring at his party.  Gandalf once had a comprehensive knowledge of Orc, Elf, and Manish magic, at least for the defending and locking of  places, and while he had forgotten many of these spells by the time of the War of the Ring, he still had a firm grasp of many.
Gandalf the White displayed these same powers, but more advanced and with a few more spells. When he first met Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas in his new form, he shocked and quickly overpowered them with his agility and magic: he effortlessly disarmed the former two, one by causing his sword to burst into flames, the other by pulling the axe from his hands with a wave of his staff, and burnt the Elf's arrow into nothing when the latter loosed it. Shortly afterwards, he said that he had recently battled Sauron's eye to prevent him from locating Frodo, and although successful, the confrontation left him spent. Gandalf's mere presence was frightening to those who were about him if the White Wizard willed it and his voice could stun weaker beings or cause them to hesitate. Gandalf the White could force others to obey his orders, as he demonstrated against Gimli and Saruman.  He also displayed the ability to communicate with horses and was able to reach Shadowfax with his mind. Gandalf's control over lighting and shadows increased after his return, as he was able to strike down Gríma Wormtongue without really harming the man, just after controlling the darkness in a whole room to remove the light as a show of power.  He later displayed the ability to focus raw light (called the "white fire") into beams and blasts to drive off the Ringwraiths and these attacks were so powerful that only the Witch-king dared to duel Gandalf, using this spell caused Gandalf's eyes to glow. Gandalf also telekinetically disarmed Denethor and was able to increase his physical strength, without needing to speak spells. Finally, he also shattered Saruman’s staff, and thus stripped the rogue wizard of his divine/magical power, save the power of Saruman's voice.
For all his power as Gandalf the White, he admitted that Sauron was far stronger and would win if they ever dueled and was unsure if he could defeat the Witch-king, once the latter had been empowered for the assault on Gondor.
As his unrestricted form, Olórin, he possibly had all his previous powers massively boosted, and the ability to shapeshift. However, even this form seems to have restrictions, as the Ainur were said to have their power restricted upon descending to earth.
Gandalf primarily used his staff, but also carried a sword in combat. Sometimes during combat, Gandalf would be seen wielding both weapons against his enemies.
Gandalf utilized his staff for various spells and abilities. He used it not just as a weapon, but a walking stick. He initially had an old wooden staff which he lost in the Mines of Moria while fighting the Balrog. He used a new one upon becoming Gandalf the White.
This was an Elven sword Gandalf found in a troll cave. From that point until the resolution of the War of the Ring, he used this as a weapon to complement his staff, wielding them with equal skill. In many cases, he fought with both weapons at once.
Sir Ian McKellen portrayed Gandalf in The Lord of the Rings film trilogy directed by Peter Jackson.
I gave you the chance of aiding me willingly, but you have elected the way of pain!—Saruman to Gandalf
Sean Connery was originally considered for the role of Gandalf, but turned it down because he didn't want to spend so long in New Zealand, where the film was shot; Tom Baker of Doctor Who fame, Patrick Stewart, Christopher Plummer, and David Bowie were also considered or approached. McKellen's interpretation of the role was widely praised. He was nominated for an Academy Award for his portrayal of Gandalf in The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, making him the only individual cast member to be nominated for his performance. Christopher Lee, a lifelong fan of Tolkien's works, had hoped to be cast as Gandalf, but due to his advancing age instead opted for the role of Saruman, as Gandalf would require horse riding and more swordsmanship.
Gandalf's staff in The Fellowship of the Ring film was sculpted by Brigitte Wuest, after a drawing by Alan Lee.
Gandalf the Grey (1977)
Ian McKellen reprised his role of Gandalf the Grey for The Hobbit film trilogy, noting in early interviews that he preferred portraying Gandalf the Grey to Gandalf the White, as Gandalf the Grey required a more nuanced performance. He maintains, however, that he enjoyed playing both Gandalf's, but felt Gandalf the Grey was easier and calmer to portray.
John Huston provided the voice of Gandalf in two animated television features by Rankin/Bass (The Hobbit and The Return of the King).
Gandalf the Grey (1978)
In the 1978 animated film of The Lord of the Rings by Ralph Bakshi, Gandalf was voiced by William Squire with John A. Neris doing the modeling. (It is not known whether Squire played him in the live-action recordings used for rotoscoping.)
Gandalf the White (1980)
All items (54)
Shelob was a great Spider and the greatest offspring of Ungoliant, the primordial spider. In the Third Age she lived on the borders of Mordor and was known to feed indiscriminately, preying on the inhabitants. She was encountered by Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee in their quest to destroy the One Ring.
Shelob's early history is completely unknown, save for the assumption that she was born in the Ered Gorgoroth and that she was the "last child" of Ungoliant. By the Second Age, she often feasted on her own children, and that at some point after fleeing from Beleriand, yet long before Sauron took the land of Mordor for himself she spun a dark lair in the Ephel Dúath (Mountains of Shadow) in Cirith Ungol. For thousands of years she resided there, making a labyrinth of webs within a network of caves to better trap her prey, which included all creatures great and small. She feasted primarily on those who wandered into her webs, though if a particularly juicy morsel was available, she would silently pursue and kill it.
Sauron was aware of Shelob's presence in the mountains and allowed her to dwell there, for she made an excellent, if incidental, guard for the pass of Cirith Ungol. Sauron was known to be somewhat fond of her, and in a rare show of humor, was even known to refer to her as his cat. Sauron would sometimes give her food in the form of prisoners for which he had no more use, or servants who had displeased him. Reports of the massacre made by Shelob would be carried back to Barad-dûr to further please the Dark Lord's humor. She would also sometimes eat Orcs that manned the Tower of Cirith Ungol. However, as she was a more effective guard for the pass than they, Sauron never made any serious attempt to stop her (though Orcs would occasionally try to barricade her lair with stones).
At one point after being set free from Mordor, Gollum stumbled into her lair while attempting to escape the barren country. She caught him, but he survived the encounter by promising to bring her tastier meats than he. Orcs of Cirith Ungol had seen him on several occasions and believed that he was too thin and wiry for Shelob to bother eating.
Gollum would attempt later to fulfil this promise by leading Frodo and Sam into her lair and abandoning them. His hope was that once Shelob finished eating the two hobbits, she would throw away the One Ring with the other parts of the hobbits that she could not eat, allowing Gollum to retrieve it. The two hobbits eventually happened upon a passageway that was too choked with Shelob's dark cobwebs to proceed, but as fortune would have it, Frodo's sword Sting, being of Elvish make, was able to slice through them. Using the Phial of Galadriel, they managed to at first fend her off. The light of Eärendil's Star shone from the Phial, causing unbearable stabbing pain to Shelob's darkened senses, but she returned to attack Frodo, poisoning him with her stinger in a surprise attack just as they reached the exit of the cave on the Mordor side. Her venom paralyzed Frodo, and she then wrapped him in her web.
Sam then assaulted the creature using Sting and the Phial of Galadriel in order to rescue his master. In a pitched battle, Sam managed to stab one of her eyes and injure her leg, but she held the upper hand. However, when she tried to use her stinger to inject Sam with venom, he dodged at the last moment and was able to stab her in the abdomen with Sting. This wounded her enough that Sam forced her to retreat using the Phial of Galadriel. None had ever wounded her so badly before.
It is not known if Shelob recovered from the battle, or if she succumbed to her wounds, as it was said her fate would remain unknown to the people of Middle-earth. She is last mentioned when Sam put on the One Ring, and heard Shelob "bubbling" in her misery far away, as his sense of hearing was vastly improved by wearing the Ring.
As a spawn of Ungoliant, Shelob would accurately be classified as part spider, part demon (to an unknown extent), though of a spider form. Like most spiders, Shelob had spindly legs, multiple eyes, and venomous chelicerae. She usually immobilized her prey with her paralyzing sting that enabled her to feed on her victims at her leisure, but could also crush her prey to death by swiftly dropping on them. Her head was crisscrossed with scars and she had a number of missing eyes. The Orcs comment she usually would paralyze her victims and trap them in webs, keeping them alive for some time before killing them.
Gollum indirectly mentions Shelob near the end of Ralph Bakshi's 1978 film, saying that "she might help us...", but she does not appear.
Unlike in the books, Shelob makes her first appearance in Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, rather than The Two Towers, because (as explained) if she had appeared in The Two Towers, there would be very little for Frodo and Sam to encounter in the final film. In this adaptation, Shelob appears as a CGI animated creature, roughly eight feet in length and seventeen feet across.
Shelob is an optional boss in the Wii and PS3 versions of The Lord of the Rings: Aragorn's Quest, but only fought as an imaginary enemy in the Shire overworld's Mushroom Woods.  This optional boss fight is the end of a side quest available in the afternoon where Frodo Gamgee re-enacts Frodo's perilous journey to her lair.
Shelob as she appears in Middle-earth: Shadow of War
Shelob, in Middle-earth: Shadow of War, is visible in human form in the wraith-world. In the game, she has Celebrimbor's ring for quite some time while giving Talion visions about the fate of Minas Ithil (Minas Morgul) and the Ringwraiths. It is also seen in the game that Shelob was working with Sauron during the period he was posing as Annatar, and was implied to be his lover before he betrayed her. The mobile version of Shadow of War classifies Shelob as a Maia, though J.R.R. Tolkien never specified her exact nature.
Shelob in The Lord of the Rings Online
In The Lord of the Rings Online, Shelob is known to Elves as "Ungwetári" and Lord Celeborn had hunted her down in the early years of the Third Age, to no avail. Shelob has a mental link to her children and after being stabbed by Sam she summons all of her children to her side for nourishment and protection. Places formerly infested with spiders such as Mirkwood become empty as whole nests of them travel south to the call of their mother. Shelob herself is depicted as much larger than in the movie or other giant spiders, which are encountered in the game on numerous occasions. Shelob herself is the last boss in the main raid of the Minas Morgul expansion.
Gothmog was the lieutenant of the Witch-king in the Third Age from Minas Morgul, notably serving at the Battle of the Pelennor Fields.
Gothmog was mentioned only once in The Lord of the Rings, at the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, following the loss of his master: in response to the arrival of the Rohirrim, he called his army's reserve out of Osgiliath and into the main battle, and brought Easterlings, Southrons, Variags, and Troll-men "into the fray".
Gothmog's race is wholly unspecified in the books. He is assumed in various media to be an Orc or Black Númenórean.
In The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, Gothmog is portrayed as a deformed Morannon orc-general with a crippled left arm, and his role is expanded from his brief mention in the books.
Gothmog at overtaken Osgiliath
Although his name is not spoken in the film, officially-licensed merchandise confirms that this character is meant to represent the same Gothmog mentioned in the novel. He is first seen commanding the Orcs crossing the Anduin river to the western half of Osgiliath, which is still held by Men, and orders the first shot fired in the Battle of Osgiliath. After Faramir's retreat, a second legion enters the city from Minas Morgul via the bridge that the Orcs who controlled the eastern side of the city had rebuilt.
The troops of Gondor retreated, leaving behind their wounded, one of whom is Madril, the badly-wounded lieutenant of the Ithilien Rangers, whom Gothmog kills with a spear. The Witch-king, arriving from Minas Morgul, then instructs him to assault Minas Tirith using all legions at his disposal. When Gothmog asks about Gandalf, the Witch-king replies that he will "break him".
When Faramir rides out with a small band of Gondor Knights on horseback, attempting to retake the city, Gothmog orders his archers to fire a volley from the ruins of Osgiliath which kill the knights save Faramir. Once his forces arrive on the Pelennor Fields, he orders the heads of the dead soldiers in Osgiliath to be launched off the catapults, to instill fear into the hearts of Gondor's soldiers and destroy their morale.
Leading the assault on the Gates
Gothmog then begins directing the main ground operations, from catapults to siege-towers. He becomes enraged when the doors into the city won't budge, ordering Grond to be brought forth to smash it down. When the defenders of Gondor start launching debris at the attackers with trebuchets, Gothmog orders his troops to hold still. When a large piece of the debris is launched directly at him, Gothmog waits until the last second before sidestepping to avoid it by about a foot, prompting him to mock his opponents by spitting on it. His lieutenants are Guritz, with the skull on his helmet, who seemed to be the siege commander, and Murgash, a Black Uruk.
In the theatrical release, Gothmog is presumed dead after the Rohirrim's charge as he is last seen trying to back away as the Rohirrim kill his men.
In the extended edition, he is shown to have survived the onslaught and duels Éowyn, who gains the upper hand and wounds his leg. Gothmog collapses in pain moments before the Witch-king arrives on the scene of the battle. Éowyn succeeds in destroying the Witch-king, but is injured in the process and crawls to Merry.
The last moments of Gothmog's life
At this point, Gothmog rises, furious for revenge, and uses an axe for support as he limps towards her. As he approaches, he discards the axe and picks up a mace, preparing to kill Éowyn. Aragorn rushes in and chops off his arm, before Gimli strikes Gothmog from behind in the torso with his axe, and Aragorn then delivers the final blow to his back, killing him.
In the Middle-earth Role Playing game, Gothmog is described as a Half-troll.
In the wargame War of the Ring, published in 1977, Gothmog was the second most powerful Nazgûl, and a powerful magician.
Gothmog is also a playable evil hero in The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II Special Extended Edition and Battle for Middle Earth II - Rise of the Witch-king. According to reports, Gothmog was the most requested character on the Battle for Middle-earth forums, eventually leading to him being added as a hero unit in The Rise Of The Witch-king expansion pack.
Gothmog (Robert Smith) is a downloadable character on the Heroes and Maps Pack in the The Lord of the Rings: Conquest.
Gothmog is a hero unit of the Host of Mordor in The Lord of the Rings: Tactics, usually appearing in the Gondor missions. He specializes in debilitating status attacks and increasing the movement range of himself or allies. His unique skills include:
Gothmog is a mini-hero in Game Boy Advance Third Age game.
LEGO Gothmog
Gothmog is a playable player in LEGO The Lord of the Rings: The Video Game, he also appeared in the cut-scenes.
Eärnur as Gothmog in The Lord of the Rings Online
Gothmog plays a major role in the game as the chief antagonist of several Epic storylines and is also combined with the character of Eärnur. In the game's version of events, in Minas Morgul Eärnur was transformed into a wraith named Mordirith in service of the Witch-king, who in mockery of the Stewards of Gondor made Mordirith his own Steward of Carn Dûm in Angmar. Long abscent from it, Mordirith returns to Carn Dûm shortly before War of the Ring, launching attacks against the Free Peoples of Eriador. Mordirith is defeated at the end of the game's original storyline, plunging the other servants of Sauron into a civil war over his position before he returns and his identity is revealed at the end of Volume I. He is defeated again, but instead of being send back to the North he is named Gothmog and is ordered to lead the Witch-king's armies against Gondor.
The player doesn't meet him again until Osgiliath, shortly before the Siege of Gondor. During the Battle of the Pelennor Fields Gothmog personally kills the Ranger Halbarad, but when his master is undone and can no longer bring him back from the void, he suddenly feels fear again and flees the battlefield before Aragorn. Gothmog barricades himself inside Minas Morgul, refusing even Sauron's muster to the Black Gate. Though he outlives the Dark Lord's demise, his other surviving servants blame Gothmog for it and combine their forces to assault of the City of the Dead. This gives the players and a group of Rangers of Ithilien the opportunity to sneak inside and challenge Gothmog, delivering a final defeat to him.
Khamûl was one of the nine Ringwraiths second to the Witch-king, in Middle-earth. During the Third Age, he held Dol Guldur as Sauron's lieutenant. After the Witch-king was slain, he became the Lord of Nazgûl for a short period.
Khamûl the Easterling, by John Howe
Khamûl was once a mortal man, an Easterling who ruled in Rhûn. He received one of the nine Rings of Power from the Dark Lord Sauron and in time he was corrupted and became one of his servants.
He first appeared as one of the Nazgûl in SA 2251.
Khamûl in the Shire, by Denis Gordeev
In TA 2951, Sauron sent three Nazgûl to abide in Dol Guldur, and Khamûl commanded the fortress thereafter.
Khamûl was the wraith who pursued the hobbits to Bucklebury Ferry in the Shire, and who asked Farmer Maggot for "Baggins" just before Frodo Baggins left Hobbiton.
Khamûl also appeared in the Battle of the Pelennor Fields with the other Nazgûl, mounted on his Fellbeast and killing Gondor's soldiers at the beginning of the battle. After the Witch-king's demise, he and the other seven lesser Nazgûl retreated to Mordor.
Afterwards, Khamûl became the leader of the Nazgûl. He led them to the Battle of the Black Gate riding his Fellbeast, before they were attacked by the Eagles. The Nazgûl retreated when Sauron sensed that Frodo claimed the One Ring for himself, and were dispatched to Mount Doom. He fell in the eruption's fire.
Khamûl was called the Shadow of the East, the Second Chief, and the Black Easterling. He was the only Ringwraith whose name was given by J.R.R. Tolkien, as well as one of the six Ringwraiths not of Númenórean descent.
In prior versions of the legendarium, Khamûl was stationed at Dol Guldur on March 6, when Aragorn revealed himself to Sauron and began marching on the Wood-elf realms on March 10th. On March 11th, his forces began assailing the nearby Lothlórien. After this failed, much of his force passed around the border of the woods and entered the Wold of Rohan. On March 12, they were met with Ents sent east from Fangorn and Isengard, and were routed. Lórien was then attacked twice more on March 15 and March 22, but was never entered. The forces of Dol Guldur also went north into Mirkwood, battling the forces of King Thranduil under Mirkwood's trees, the climax of these battles being on March 15,  which after a "long battle... and great ruin and fire" was won by Thranduil's forces.
The model for Khamûl's true appearance
Khamûl before he was corrupted, according to TheLandOfShadow.com
In Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings film trilogy, Khamûl is shown briefly when speaking to Farmer Maggot, who directs him onward to Hobbiton. Later, the Hobbits evade Farmer Maggot, but Frodo senses a presence and tells his friends to get off the road. Hiding behind a tree, the Hobbits hush as Khamûl approached, catching their scent. As the four stay quiet, Merry throws a sack of vegetables behind the Rider's horse, distracting Khamûl and allowing the Hobbits to escape.
In The Return of the King, after the Ring was destroyed, Khamûl died along with the seven other Ringwraiths in the eruption of Mount Doom, the Witch-king having perished earlier during the Battle of the Pelennor Fields.
Khamûl, as seen in The Hobbit films
In the The Hobbit film trilogy, the nine Ringwraiths had been buried in the High Fells of Rhudaur, but emerged at the summons of the Necromancer, who is revealed to be Sauron. In The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, Khamûl and the other eight Ringwraiths engage the White Council in battle, with Khamûl wearing spectral Easterling armor.
Carcharoth, also known as the Red Maw, lived in the First Age of the Sun, and was the greatest werewolf that ever lived. He was of the line of Draugluin.
Depiction by Magdalena Katańska
Carcharoth was created as a defence against Huan, and was reared by Morgoth's own hands on living flesh and filled with great power. So Carcharoth, who was also named Anfauglir (IPA: /anˈfaʊglir/), the 'Jaws of Thirst', grew to great size and his strength seemed beyond compare. His eyes burned like red coals and his teeth were poisoned as the spears of the Orcish legions. Carcharoth was the guardian of the gate of Angband and none could pass him by strength of body alone.
He became involved with the Quest for the Silmaril when Beren and Lúthien had to pass him upon their entrance of Angband. He there espied them, and grew suspicious of Beren because he was disguised as Draugluin, who Carcharoth knew to be slain. Before he could take action against the pair, Lúthien enchanted him with her magic, sending him into a deep sleep. Unfortunately, on their way out Carcharoth awoke, and Lúthien was too weary to spell him again. Beren held out the captured Silmaril in an attempt to slay the beast, but Carcharoth was not daunted, and bit off Beren's hand at the wrist, Silmaril and all.
"The Hunting of Carcharoth" by Justin Gerard
The Silmaril burnt away Carcharoth's insides, and he became crazed with pain, yet filled with great power. A terror to Elves, Men and Orcs alike, he burst from Angband, slaying anything and everything in his path. He continued south through Beleriand, and eventually he arrived in Doriath. With the power of the Silmaril inside him, the Girdle of Melian had no effect on him, and his presence placed the entire kingdom in grave danger. To protect Doriath, Beren Erchamion, Elu Thingol, Beleg Cúthalion, and Mablung joined with Huan the Hound to track down and slay the Wolf.
Carcharoth was later killed in single combat by Huan, in FA 466, but he poisoned both Huan and Beren mortally, with his teeth. When Mablung cut open the wolf's belly, he found there the Silmaril with Beren's hand still closed around it, but, when he touched the flesh, the hand was swept away by a wind, leaving only the great jewel.
Carcharoth battling Huan
Originally, Carcharoth's name was Karkaras, meaning the Knife-Fang. Karkaras was considered a father of wolves and initially bore a shape of a huge grey wolf.
Another name for Carcharoth was Borosaith, meaning 'Ever-hungry', which was used mainly in song.
The detail of Beren losing his hand to Carcharoth may have been inspired by the Norse legend of the god Týr, who lost his hand to the wolf Fenrir.
Draugluin was the first werewolf to be bred by Morgoth during the First Age of Middle-earth.
Draugluin was bred of the wolves and imbued with an evil spirit sent by Morgoth himself.  Draugluin was a dreadful, old, and evil abomination and was the lord and sire of all werewolves of Beleriand, and dwelt with his master Sauron in Tol-in-Gaurhoth, the former watchtower of Finrod Felagund.
Draugluin was slain by Huan during the Quest for the Silmaril after a long battle, and Beren and Lúthien used his pelt to sneak into Angband.
Draugluin was the sire of Carcharoth and many other werewolves. It is probable the Wargs of the Third Age and the White Wolves were descended from him, as these wolves could speak, suggesting they had Fëar.
Draugluin means "Blue wolf" in Sindarin, from draug ("wolf") and luin ("blue"). Drauglir was an earlier form of the name.[citation needed]
Gothmog (Sindarin IPA: [ˈɡoθmoɡ]) was the first Lord of Balrogs during the First Age, and the greatest Balrog ever to walk Middle-earth. He held the title of High-captain of Angband, being Morgoth's front-line lieutenant as well as one of his most important servants. He fought many battles in the name of his master, and was personally responsible for killing two of the High Kings of the Ñoldor.
Gothmog, like the rest of his kind, carried a fiery whip into battle, but was also known for wielding a great black axe, feared by Elves across Beleriand.
Gothmog in arms, by Popuche
Gothmog was initially one of the Maiar who gave their allegiance to Melkor. Prior to the revolt of the Ñoldor, he was High Captain of Angband, given the title "Lord of Balrogs."
During the Dagor-nuin-Giliath in YT 1498, Fëanor pressed on to Angband with just a small company, and in that hour, the Balrogs issued forth. Gothmog was among them. Fëanor came even within sight of Angband, but was ambushed with few Elves about him. Soon he stood alone, but long he fought on alone against all the Balrogs. But at the last Gothmog, Lord of Balrogs, smote him to the ground, inflicting a mortal wound, and the High King of the Ñoldor fell. The Sons of Fëanor arrived and carried the body of their father away, but Fëanor had passed. Gothmog reappeared as a general of Angband in several more major conflicts, including the Dagor Aglareb and the Nírnaeth Arnoediad. During the Nírnaeth, Gothmog engaged the High King of the Ñoldor, Fingon, in battle. Gothmog separated Fingon from the main host but was unable to kill Fingon (in earlier versions) until the second and lesser Balrog lord Lungorthin appeared behind the Ñoldorin king and "cast a throng of steel about him". This allowed Gothmog to slay Fingon and beat the body to dust. Thereafter, he captured Húrin, father of Túrin Turambar, and dragged him back to Angband.
The death of Fëanor at the hands of Gothmog, by LuisFBejarano
Ecthelion charges Gothmog as they fight to the death.
In FA 510, Gothmog and the forces of Angband besieged the Hidden City of Gondolin. They breached the northern gates and were later confronted by Ecthelion of the Fountain, whom Gothmog dueled. Knocking Ecthelion's sword out of his hands, Gothmog prepared to strike at him, but, as he raised his axe, Ecthelion ran forward at the Balrog lord, ramming his pointed helmet into the beast's chest and forcing both of them into the Fountain of the King. The waters quenched the flames of Gothmog and drowned both him and Ecthelion, ending the Battle of Gondolin.
Gothmog is a Quenya name, of the terms gos or goth ("dread") and -mbaw ("compel, force, subject, oppress").
Gothmog's Quenya name was Osombauko.[citation needed]
Gothmog was briefly conceived as a "son of Melkor and the ogress Fluithuin", and went by the name of Kosomot. The root of the name moko translated to "hate".
This category is for dragons of Middle-earth.
All items (13)
Olga Serebryakova (Khraniteli)
Legolas was a Sindar Elf who was part of the Fellowship of the Ring in the Third Age. Son of the Elvenking Thranduil of Mirkwood, Legolas was Mirkwood's prince, a messenger, and a master archer. With his keen eyesight, sensitive hearing, and excellent bowmanship, Legolas was valuable to the Fellowship in their journey across Middle-earth. He was well-known for becoming friends with the Dwarf Gimli, despite their long-held differences.
Legolas was the only son of Thranduil, King of the Elves of Northern Mirkwood. His exact date of birth and mother's name are unknown.
Legolas came to the Council of Elrond in Rivendell, the great meeting held by the Elf lord Elrond, as a messenger from his father to discuss the escape of Gollum. When the council was choosing the "Nine Walkers" to pit against the "Nine Riders," Legolas volunteered to represent the Elves, and to become one of the members of the Fellowship that would set out to destroy the One Ring.
Legolas in combat with the Goblins during the Skirmish in Balin's Tomb
During their journey, Legolas would stay at the rear due to his keen eyes. On Caradhras, Legolas was able to run nimbly over the snow, leaving behind little imprint, whereas his companions struggled to plough through it. When Gandalf gave his counsel, Legolas voted against passing through Moria. In the morning, the Fellowship was waylaid by Wargs and Legolas fought in their defence. After the battle, he picked up his arrows, save one which was damaged.
Gimli quarreled with him in Moria (which was not unexpected considering the ancient quarrel between Elves and Dwarves) - Legolas' father Thranduil had once imprisoned Gimli's father, Glóin.
He and Gimli became friends, however, when Gimli greeted the Elf, Lady Galadriel, with gentle words. Before the Fellowship departed from Lothlórien, Legolas was given a new Galadhrim longbow. While the Fellowship was travelling over the River Anduin, he used his new bow to shoot an overhead Nazgûl on a Fellbeast with one masterful shot in the dark.
After the breaking of the Fellowship, Legolas and Aragorn sang a song of lament for the fall of Boromir. He then led the way as he, Aragorn and Gimli raced through Rohan after the Uruk-hai who had taken Merry and Pippin. During that week, he was given a grey horse named Arod, on which he and Gimli would often ride together, from Éomer and his Éored.
In Fangorn Forest, Legolas, Aragorn, and Gimli were reunited with Gandalf, now called Gandalf the White. Upon their meeting, Gandalf delivered the messages of Galadriel to them:
Legolas Greenleaf, long under tree, In joy thou hast lived. Beware of the Sea! If thou hearest the cry of the gull on the shore, Thy heart shall then rest in the forest no more.
—Galadriel's message to Legolas
Legolas and Gimli at Helm's Deep, by John Howe
In the Battle of the Hornburg, Legolas and Gimli engaged in an Orc-slaying contest  that Gimli won (the score being 42 to 43, respectively), though Legolas was not jealous, stating, "You have passed my score by one but I do not grudge you the game, so glad am I to see you on your legs."
In Rohan, he and Gimli followed Aragorn, Elladan and Elrohir to the Paths of the Dead. His horse, Arod, refused to enter the paths, but Legolas calmed him. Their company rode on, with Elladan as the last, but Legolas looked back and saw the Dead following the Grey Company.
The Dead are following. I see shapes of Men and of horses, and pale banners like shreds of cloud, and spears like winter-thickets on a misty night. The Dead are following.
—Legolas in the Paths of the Dead
Legolas fought in the Battle of the Pelennor Fields with Gimli and the sons of Elrond. After the battle, he and Gimli entered Minas Tirith; Legolas sang an elven-song as he walked, and suggested that the city needed more gardens. They met Prince Imrahil and went to the Houses of Healing, at which he remembered the cries of the gulls at Pelargir and sang a song about his newly kindled sea-longing.
Silver flow the streams from Celos to Erui
In the green fields of Lebennin!
Tall grows the grass there. In the wind from the Sea
The white lilies sway,
And the golden bells are shaken of mallos and alfirin
In the green fields of Lebennin,
In the wind from the Sea!

-The Return of the King, Book Five, Chapter IX: "The Last Debate"
Legolas and Gimli sail to Valinor, by Ted Nasmith
After the destruction of the One Ring and of Sauron, Legolas stayed for the coronation of Aragorn and his marriage to Arwen. Later, he and Gimli travelled together to Helm's Deep, visiting the Glittering Caves, and then traveled through Fangorn Forest. Eventually, Legolas came to Ithilien with some of his people, with his father's leave, to live out his remaining time in Middle-earth helping to restore the woodlands that had been war-torn. After Aragorn's death, Legolas made a ship in Ithilien and left Middle-earth to go over the sea. His strong friendship with Gimli prompted Legolas to invite him to accompany him to the Undying Lands; making him the first and only Dwarf to do so. He was never seen again in Middle-earth.
Legolas, by Magali Villenueve
The name Legolas is a Silvan dialect form of pure Sindarin Laegolas, meaning 'green leaf'. It consists of Sindarin words laeg ("green") and golas ("a collection of leaves, foliage, being a prefixed collective form of las(s) "leaf"). The Quenya translation of Legolas is Laiqualassë.
There might, however, be a certain meaning to his name: laeg is a very rare, archaic word for "green", which is normally replaced by calen (cf. Calenhad, mutated Parth Galen and plural Pinnath Gelin) and is otherwise almost only preserved in Laegrim, Laegel(d)rim (Sindarin form of Quenya Laiquendi), the Green Elves of the First Age. It may be that Thranduil named his son Legolas to at least partially refer to this people, who were remote kin and ancestors of the later Silvan Elves whom Thranduil ruled.
Young Legolas, by Anna Lee
Although he lived among them, Legolas was not fully of the Silvan Elves. As a son of the Elven-king Thranduil, who had originally come from Doriath, Legolas was at least half Sindar; his mother's identity is completely unknown. This is complicated by the fact that a small minority of Sindarin Elves ruled the predominantly Silvan Woodland Realm of Northern Mirkwood, a minority to which Legolas belonged. The Sindarin minority in that realm, who should have been nobler and wiser than the Silvan Elves can be seen as having "gone native" at the end of the First Age: after Morgoth was defeated and all grand Elf-kingdoms of Beleriand were destroyed, the Sindar nobles can be seen as having reverted to a simpler society.
Like all Elves, Legolas had great respect and appreciation for nature. After the Fellowship parted from Fangorn Forest, he longed to return once more to explore its wonders more thoroughly. He was kind, caring greatly for his friends, even Gimli the Dwarf, though Elves and Dwarves almost never expressed liking for one another in Middle-earth.
Legolas in Parth Galen
As an Elf, Legolas had the abilities typical of his race. He could walk silently on grass and snow leaving minimal footprints, allowing him to advance unhindered. His eyes were sharper than that of Men, seeing through great distances and in the dark. He could even sleep while walking, which contributed to allowing him to travel 45 leagues in less than four days with Aragorn and Gimli. He tamed unruly horses with only a few words, without needing reins or saddles.
Legolas famously used an Elven bow, as well as a long, white knife. He would prefer to pierce his enemies from afar, but his dagger was sometimes used for close combat. In Lothlórien, he was given a long-bow of the Galadhrim, which was longer and stouter than those of the fashion of Mirkwood.
The Elves in J.R.R. Tolkien's legendarium were often associated as "fairy-like" beings who grew great in stature. However, when Legolas was visually rendered as "pretty", Tolkien was "wrathful" and added a description of Legolas as:
John D. Rateliff speculates in The History of the Hobbit that had Tolkien gone on to finish the 1960 edit of the The Hobbit, proceeding to add to the Mirkwood scenes, it is possible Legolas would have been introduced.
Legolas in Ithilien
In Peter Jackson's movie adaptations, Legolas' role stays much the same as in the books, although he speaks considerably less. He is portrayed by Orlando Bloom.
In The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring Legolas arrives in Rivendell with a group of Elves. At the Council of Elrond, he is unimpressed by Boromir's attitude towards Aragorn. Legolas therefore declares "This is no mere Ranger. He is Aragorn, son of Arathorn. You owe him your allegiance".  Boromir is stunned by this revelation, but Aragorn is uncomfortable with the reminder.  When Boromir argues against trying to destroy the Ring, Legolas sharply refutes him as the Ring has to be destroyed. Gimli figures that Legolas thinks he should be the one to take the Ring and then says he would be dead before he saw the Ring in the hands of an Elf. This starts an argument between all the members of council but Frodo interrupts the quarrelling, saying that he would take the Ring to Mordor.  Gandalf and Aragorn tell Frodo that they will help him get to Mordor and Legolas decides he will also help, telling Frodo that he has his bow.  Gimli and Boromir also join the quest along with the other Hobbits, Samwise Gamgee, Peregrin Took and Meriadoc Brandybuck who were eavesdropping and decided they could not possibly be left behind. Elrond, though flustered at this, pronounces all nine of them as the Fellowship of the Ring.
The Fellowship sets off towards Mordor through the Misty Mountains. During a brief rest, Legolas is the first to spot a flock of Crebain heading their way. The group took cover immediately while the birds passed by. Afterwards Gandalf takes them through the pass of Caradhras but the Fellowship is waylaid by a snowstorm while passing over the mountains. Legolas is able to walk on the snow with no difficulty, yet he soon hears Saruman's voice influencing the weather stating that there is a fell voice in the air.  As the Fellowship are bombarded by stones and snow, Gandalf attempts to calm the storm, but Saruman sends a lightning bolt into the mountain.  This results in an avalanche which falls on the group, at which point Gandalf and Frodo decide to go through Moria.
They reach the gate of the kingdom and Gandalf tries to open the door, speaking Elvish.  Frodo discovers that the password is the Elvish word for friend and the door opens.  As they walk in, Gimli notes to Legolas that they would soon enjoy the fabled hospitality of the Dwarves and his cousin Balin. Legolas and the others see the Dwarven corpses awaiting them and the Elven prince immediately deduces that Goblins are lurking nearby.  When Frodo is suddenly attacked by the Watcher in the Water from the lake outside, Legolas notices that the watcher is searching for the Ring, so he shoots an arrow through one of its tentacles.  After Aragorn and Boromir free Frodo, Boromir yells Legolas' name and he shoots an arrow into the beast's eye, holding it back to give them time to run into the mine.  The Watcher climbs up and breaks apart the stone, which traps the Fellowship within the mines.  Legolas and the others quickly realise that they will have to go through Moria.  Eventually Gandalf leads the company to Balin's Tomb, where he discovered the Book of Mazarbul.  Legolas is uneasy as he knows that evil is lurking nearby.  Before long Pippin accidentally sends a rotting carcass into the depths of the mines, which alerts a whole army of Goblins.  Before they even break through the doors, Legolas and Aragorn are able to hit them with arrows through the holes in the doors.  Even when the doors are thrown open, Legolas shoots them down before they can close the distance.  When the Cave-troll storms into the chamber, Legolas alone is able to avoid it with ease. He even climbs onto the troll and fires an arrow into its skull.  When most of the Fellowship are fighting the troll, Legolas sees an opportunity when Pippin stabs it in the head, causing the troll to roar. The Elf then fires an arrow directly into its mouth, penetrating its skull and killing it swiftly.
The Fellowship is forced to flee from the Balrog of Morgoth, a creature which even Legolas is alarmed by.  At the crossing of the stairs, Legolas is the first to jump across the gap with no trouble. The company is attacked by archers from afar, so Legolas returns fire.  When Gimli nearly falls off the edge, Legolas swiftly grabs him by the beard and hauls him back.  Before they leave Moria, Legolas witnesses the fall of Gandalf, at which he is horrified and subdued by the loss.
Once the company reach the Woods of Lothlórien, Galadriel and Celeborn inquire about Gandalf. Only Legolas is able to tell them about the loss, bitterly lamenting their needless trip through Moria. But Galadriel deems that none of Gandalf's deeds were needless, even if the trip through Moria resulted in his demise. The Elven lady later gives gifts to the Fellowship. Legolas receives a new bow of the Galadhrim, which he subsequently uses for the rest of his journey.  While travelling down the river, Gimli laments how sorry he is to have left Lothlórien and the beauty of Galadriel. Legolas inquires as to what her gift was for him, to which Gimli confesses "I asked for one hair from her golden head. She gave me three". Legolas is amused, at which point their attitudes begin to soften.
During their trip down the river, Legolas's far sight alerts him to the presence of the Uruk-hai scouts bearing down on them.  At Parth Galen, Legolas urges Aragorn to lead them away immediately, as he can sense the Uruk-hai approaching. The Elf is called to action once more as the company is soon attacked. He arrives in time to see Boromir's final moments before he succumbs to his wounds.
After they send Boromir's body along the river in one of the boats, Legolas prepares to follow Frodo and Sam, but seeing Aragorn hesitate he realises that the Ranger doesn't intend to follow them. Aragorn deems that they must rescue Merry and Pippin from the Uruk-hai.  While disappointed at first, the Elf sees hope in that the Fellowship still hold true. Therefore he eagerly joins Aragorn and Gimli in hunting down the Uruks.
In The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers the three hunters pursue the Uruks into the plains of Rohan.  From afar, Legolas can see that the Uruks are now headed directly for Isengard.  The trio soon encounter the riders of Rohan, who are hostile at first given that they are now at open war with Saruman.  When Éomer is scornful towards Gimli, Legolas aims his bow at Éomer's face and says "You would die before your stroke fell!" Aragorn quickly diffuses the situation and after the cooling of words, Éomer lets them go and gives them two horses to help them find their friends. Legolas and the others discover that the Uruks have been destroyed and burned by the Rohirrim. At first they believe the Hobbits were caught in the massacre, but Aragorn discovers Hobbit tracks leading away from the battle and into Fangorn Forest.
In the shade of the trees, Legolas is intrigued by the forest, yet he is also wary as he knows that the trees are alive. He soon senses that someone is stalking them, so he warns Aragorn, "The White Wizard approaches...".  The trio turn against the stranger, but the Wizard overpowers them. He even knocks away Legolas' arrow at point blank range.  The Wizard reveals himself to be Gandalf, having destroyed the Balrog and being resurrected by the great powers. Legolas is overwhelmed to see his return. Gandalf tells them that the Hobbits are safe and that they must aid Rohan.
At Edoras, Legolas and the others are forced to disarm before seeing the King, although Gandalf manages to get his staff through.  The possessed Théoden is under the control of Gríma Wormtongue, servant of Saruman and the fallen wizard possesses the king's mind.  Théoden and Wormtongue set their thugs on the group and Legolas, Gimli and Aragorn fight them off while Gandalf walks towards the king, using his staff he frees him from the spell, revealing himself to Saruman as the new white wizard.  Against the wishes of Gandalf and Aragorn, Théoden believes it would be best to take refuge in the stronghold of Helm's Deep.
On the way to Helm's Deep, the company are attacked by Warg-riders.  Legolas quickly aids Gamling in slaying the two scouts before the rest of the riders show up. Legolas shoots down several Wargs and riders as they approach over the hills and then mounts up onto Arod as the Rohirrim ride up from behind him.
In the midst of the fighting, Aragorn is dragged off a cliff and into the river below.  Legolas and Gimli interrogate the dying Sharku, where the Elf recovers the Evenstar.  Legolas believes that Aragorn has perished and is disconsolate, but Théoden urges them to come to Helm's Deep.  Legolas and Gimli have no choice to but to continue.
When Aragorn recovers and arrives at Helm's Deep later on, Legolas greets him and returns the the Evenstar to him.  Aragorn reveals that he has seen ten thousand Uruk-hai marching towards Helm's Deep, prompting the King to order the defense of the fortress.  But Legolas and Gimli are doubtful that they can hold out against such sheer numbers.  Legolas in particular despairs that they will all die, prompting Aragorn to say "Then I shall die as one of them!"
The Elf later reconciles with Aragorn before the battle.  Legolas then hears a horn blowing and immediately recognizes it as an Elvish call.  Haldir and an army of Lothlórien Elves arrive to aid the King, sent by Galadriel and Elrond.
On the Deeping Wall of the Hornburg, Legolas joins his kin with Gimli, although the Dwarf grumbles about not being tall enough to see over the rampart.  When the Uruk-hai arrive and start uttering war cries, Gimli frantically asks what is going on. Legolas offers either a description or a large box for Gimli to stand on, to which the Dwarf laughs.
“Shall I describe it to you? Or would you like me to find you a box?”
- Legolas to Gimli at the start of the Battle of the Hornburg
The siege begins and Legolas told the Elves and Men to aim at the Uruk's necks and underarms where their armor is weak. Uruks began climbing up on siege ladders and Legolas and Gimli begin killing them on the wall.  Legolas also spots an Uruk berserker with a bomb and attempts to shoot him down, but the Uruk simply hurls himself into the hole in the wall. The Deeping Wall is blasted to pieces, although Legolas survives unharmed. He rides down the stairs on an Uruk shield while shooting arrows at the same time.  Eventually however Legolas and the others are forced to retreat.  When the Uruks begin to throw up more siege ladders, the Elf manages to buy some time by shooting the ropes, causing one of them to topple over and flatten the Uruks. The Uruks then break into the fortress, so Legolas and the others withdraw into the keep.  They continue to barely hold out through the night and as the sun of the following morning rises Aragorn urges Théoden to ride out one last time.  Legolas joins them and together they mow down the Uruk-hai outside on the bridge.  Legolas also witnesses the return of Gandalf with an army of horsemen led by Éomer.  The Battle of Helm's Deep ends and the remaining Orcs flee back to Isengard where Treebeard and the Ents have attacked and destroyed them.
In The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King Legolas joins the others in finding Merry and Pippin at Isengard.  When the group confronts Saruman, Gimli becomes impatient with the wizard and suggests that Legolas shoot him.  Legolas actually begins to do so, but Gandalf commands him not to as they need information.  Eventually Legolas is forced to act when Wormtongue stabs Saruman, so the Elf shoots Wormtongue in the heart, but it is too late to save Saruman and the former white wizard's body plummets and lands on a spiky wheel at the bottom.  The palantír falls into the water and Pippin retrieves it.  It is quickly confiscated by Gandalf.
On returning to Edoras, a celebration is held for the recent victory at Helm's Deep. There Legolas is introduced to a drinking game with Gimli which seemingly he has never done before.  Nevertheless he holds his liquor very well, going through several pints and still standing, although he mentions "I can feel something... a slight tingle in my fingers. I think it's affecting me".  Gimli however passes out, whereupon Legolas wins the game.
Later he stands outside and talks with Aragorn and feels Sauron's presence when Pippin looks into the palantír. Aragorn grabs the stone and Legolas holds him up as he almost falls, the palantír rolling out of his hands. Gandalf quickly covers it with a cloth.  The next morning he hears what Gandalf has discovered after Pippin's vision in the palantír.  The Elf is later seen when Gondor signals for help and Théoden orders everyone to ride to Dunharrow.  Gimli wishes that he could muster an army of Dwarves from his home, though Legolas speculates that war already marches on their lands as well.
At Dunharrow, Legolas and Gimli notice that the men and horses are uneasy under the shadow of the mountain.  Gimli inquires about the road leading into the mountain, which Legolas identifies as the road to the Dimholt.  Éomer warns them that the mountain is an evil place to be avoided.
Legolas catches Aragorn trying to leave without himself and Gimli, and together they join him on the road through the haunted mountain. Gimli wonders aloud about the dead, whereupon Legolas explains how they refused to aid Isildur in the war against Sauron, breaking their oath and being cursed to walk the earth endlessly.  Inside the mountain, the King of the Dead confronts the trio and sends his army to kill them. Legolas tries to shoot the dead king, but the arrow simply passes through his skull.  Aragorn's reforged sword physically blocks the weapon of the king, at which point the dead king realized that Aragorn was Isildur's Heir.  Aragorn demands that they fight and fulfil their oath. The Dead King and his army seemed to retreat, when the mountain is rocked by an earthquake. The trio are forced to flee the avalanche of skulls and rocks.  Once outside, Legolas and the others see the Corsairs of Umbar heading to Gondor, but the King of the Dead reappears and agrees to fight.
Legolas and the others arrive in Gondor on the Black Ships after the Battle of the Pelennor Fields has already begun.  There he and Gimli begin another contest to kill as many Orcs as possible.  Legolas mounts a stampeding Mûmak, climbing up the great beast to cut the war tower loose, sending the Haradrim archers into the path of the oncoming Oathbreakers. Legolas then shoots the Mûmak in the head with three arrows and slides down its trunk as it collapses. Landing in front an indignant Gimli, the Dwarf declares that it is still only one, seemingly forgetting the war tower full of Haradrim.
To give Frodo more time to get the Ring to Mount Doom, the remaining forces go to the Black Gate to distract Sauron and his forces.  At the Black Gate, Legolas and Gimli acknowledge their friendship before the battle begins. Legolas and Gandalf then follow Aragorn as he charges at the host of Mordor.  During the fighting Legolas notices Aragorn struggling to fight an armoured troll and immediately rushes to his aid.  Legolas is present when the Great Eagles arrive and begin fighting the Nazgûl in the air.  When the One Ring is destroyed, Legolas is one of the first to notice the Eye of Sauron screaming from afar.  He then witnesses the fall of Barad-dûr and the destruction of Mordor.  At first he is happy but then notices the mountain erupting and immediately is worried for Frodo and Sam.
Legolas is present when Frodo reawakens in Minas Tirith. At Aragorn's coronation, the King thanks his friend again for his support.  Legolas then steps aside to reveal Arwen, whereupon Aragorn finally marries her. Legolas then bows before Frodo, Sam, Pippin and Merry with everybody else present to thank them for everything they did.
Do not think I won't kill you, dwarf! It would be my pleasure.—Legolas to Thorin, in The Desolation of Smaug
Legolas confronts Thorin and Company.
In The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, Orlando Bloom returns to the role of Legolas. Although Legolas does not appear anywhere in the novel The Hobbit, he has a significant role as the son of the Elven-king Thranduil within their Woodland Realm.
During one hunt, Legolas and Tauriel come across the Company of Thorin Oakenshield on their journey to the Lonely Mountain. Legolas and the Mirkwood Elf Rangers surround the Dwarves and take them captive, searching them. Legolas pulled out a photo of Glóin's wife and of his son Gimli and tosses it aside after asking who they are.  He is handed Orcrist, which Thorin had been wielding.  Legolas asks Thorin where he got the blade to which the stubborn Dwarf replies that it had been given to him.  Legolas accuses Thorin of being a thief and a liar before taking the blade for himself.  Legolas leads the Elves with the Dwarf prisoners back through the gates of the Elvenking's Halls. Thinking that he hears something behind him, Legolas turns around, giving Bilbo Baggins enough time to sneak through the gates wearing the One Ring. The Dwarves are locked up while Thranduil tries to bargain with Thorin, but the Dwarf turns down the deal.  Legolas tells his father that Tauriel fought well and Thranduil confronts her, telling her that Legolas has grown fond of her and not to give him hope where there is none, as he will never allow his son to pledge himself to a lowly Silvan Elf such as herself.  Legolas later watches from above as Tauriel talks with Kíli the Dwarf.
Bilbo helps the Dwarves escape in barrels that are on their way to Lake-town, but Legolas is alerted and tells Feren to get the gate closed. Feren blows his horn and the Elf sentries close the river gate but are immediately attacked and killed by Hunter Orcs led by Bolg of Gundabad. Legolas and Tauriel reaches the gate with the support of the Silvan Guard and the Elf Rangers and they attack the Orcs. Kíli gets out of his barrel to open the gate and is shot by Bolg with a Morgul Shaft from his Morgul Bow.  Legolas follows the Dwarves downstream and is the only Elf able to keep up with the current.  He continues to kill the Hunter Orcs as he goes, jumping from one side of the creek to the other, using the Dwarves' heads as stepping stones.  Towards the end of the skirmish an Orc raises his axe behind Legolas' head and Thorin throws an axe from his barrel to kill the Orc, saving the Elf's life.
Tauriel shoots an arrow to intercept Narzug's arrow that is aimed at Legolas from behind as he watches the Dwarves and Orcs escape down the stream.  Legolas tells her not to kill the Orc archer as he might be able to help them. They bring Narzug back to their fortress where Legolas and Thranduil interrogate him. Thranduil promises to set him free but when he begins talking about his master "The One" and the weapon that is going to be unleashed Thranduil beheads him, telling Legolas that there was nothing more the Orc could tell him.  Thranduil orders the gates to be closed, nobody entering or exiting the kingdom. Legolas goes to order the gates closed when he is told Tauriel has left with nothing but her knives and bow. Legolas decides to follow her to bring her back.  When he finally catches up with her he tries to get her to come back, but Tauriel convinces him that they need to do their part and follow the Orcs.  The continue on to Lake-town.  By the time they reach Esgaroth it is night-fall and the Dwarves have already left for Erebor apart from Kíli, Fíli, Bofur and Óin and they are being attacked by Orcs in the house of Bard.  Legolas comes in through the roof and begins killing the Orcs with Tauriel. Fimbul the Hunter, Bolg's lieutenant runs out and jumps onto a boat, letting Bolg know that Oakenshield has already left and Legolas pushes the last Orc's body out onto the end of the boat Fimbul had jumped onto, sending it flying back up into Legolas' knives and he is beheaded by the Elf.  Legolas attempts to convince Tauriel to keep hunting with him but she opts to stay with Kíli who she is obviously growing feelings for.
Legolas finally catches up to Bolg who anticipates his arrival, having a couple of Orcs ready to attack the Elf prince.  Legolas attacks Bolg after killing the Orcs and an intense duel ensues. Legolas eventually lost Orcrist and has to pull out one of his knives as Bolg proves to be a stronger Orc than the others, and makes Legolas bleed for the first time. More Orcs attack Legolas as Bolg escaped on his Warg, leaving Lake-town. Legolas stands out of breath and sees the blood on his finger after touching the wound, but only stops for a moment before taking a horse and chasing down the Gundabad Orc. Bolg leads him to a Warg pack and the Orcs bear the sign of Gundabad which concerns Legolas greatly.
In The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, in the wake of the destruction of Esgaroth from the flames of Smaug and the death of the dragon by the Black Arrow fired by Bard, Legolas returnes to the refugee camp and finds Tauriel. He tells her to take leave of the Dwarf as she is needed elsewhere.  Legolas meets with Bard who seems to be the leader of the men due to the death of the Master of Lake-town. He asks what they will do and also warns Bard of the Gundabad Orcs he fears will come now that the mountain was no longer guarded by a dragon. Feren arrives and told Legolas to return immediately to his kingdom but when he finds out Tauriel had been banished, he decides to stay with her and go scout out Gundabad. They ride to the Orc stronghold and lie waiting for nightfall to go in. Tauriel asks what is beyond Gundabad and Legolas tells her it is the lands of Angmar. After a pause he adds that his mother died in Angmar and that his father barely talks about her. As it gets darker they are surprised by a hoard of Gundabad War Bats and then look over to see Bolg commanding an entire army of Gundabad War Orcs.  They ride back as quickly as they can to warn the others.
When they arrive back in the ruins of Dale, the Battle of Five Armies has already begun and they find Gandalf the Grey, telling him that another army of Orcs will arrive.  Realizing that they will trap Thorin, Dwalin, Kíli and Fíli on Ravenhill, Tauriel wishes to go help Kíli and the other Dwarves, believing their lives to be worth just as much as that of an Elf.  Thranduil, trying to leave the battle, believing that he had spent enough Elf blood on a worthless cause is stopped by Tauriel. He breaks her bow and threatensto kill her but Legolas pushes his blade away, stepping up from behind him.  He tells his father that if he hurt her he would have to kill him. Legolas tells Tauriel he will go with her and they make their way to Ravenhill. Legolas grabs hold of a bat and flies up to the fortress where he hangs upside-down and takes down an entire line of Gundabad War Orcs on their way past, before shooting his bat and landing on one of the towers. He sees Thorin fighting Azog the Defiler below on the ice and shoots down the Orcs that were sent after the Dwarf.  When he notices Bolg attacking Tauriel he reaches for an arrow but realises he has finally run out, grabbing Orcrist. He jumps down onto a Truncated Troll and commandeers it to push over the tower and create a stone bridge of sorts. Legolas and Bolg have a rematch on the stone bridges, Legolas using Orcrist until he notices Thorin cornered on the ice above. He throws Orcrist up to stab the Orc above Thorin, returning the sword to the Dwarf.  Legolas then unsheathes his knives and attacks Bolg again. Bolg pushes him down and bits of the bridge began falling beneath him, but Legolas uses his light feet to step on the falling rocks and run back up. Bolg grabs his knife in the same position that dominated Legolas in Lake-town but this time the Elf is ready for it, swinging around on top and stabbing the big Gundabad Orc in the head before jumping off and letting his body fall and get crushed by rocks from the tower. Legolas decides he can't stay in Mirkwood after defying his father and Thranduil recommends he go to the Rangers of the North to look for the Dúnedain, where he will find a young man who goes by the name of "Strider" and that Legolas must discover his true name for himself.  As Legolas leaves, Thranduil calls after him that his mother loved him. Legolas briefly looks back before walking off.
Legolas in Ralph Bakshi's animated version of Lord of the Rings.
Legolas has also been portrayed by Anthony Daniels in the 1978 Ralph Bakshi animated version of The Lord of the Rings.
Legolas was voiced by Frank Duncan in the 1956 radio series, by John Vickery in the 1979 radio series, and by David Collings in the 1981 BBC Radio 4 adaptation.
Legolas is first met in Rivendell, where before the Fellowship's departure he helps the player search for the missing Nazgûl. Later, the player catches up with Legolas at several points during the Fellowship's journey such as Cerin Amroth, Meduseld, Hornburg and the Pelennor Fields. After Sauron's defeat, Legolas and Gimli accompany soldiers of Gondor who on the orders of King Elessar begin exploring and securing the Land of Shadow; Legolas assists the player in their exploration of Tower of Cirith Ungol. Afterwards, Legolas for a brief time returns home to his father's halls in Eryn Lasgalen, where he introduces the player to Grimbeorn. He soon returns back to Minas Tirith for the wedding of Aragorn and Arwen, after which he continues the exploration of the pass of Cirith Ungol, eventually discovering the entrance to Shelob's Lair.
Faramir was the second son of Denethor II and younger brother of Boromir. He was Captain of the Rangers of Ithilien and Captain of the White Tower upon his brother's death.
After the War of the Ring, Faramir became the first Prince of Ithilien and married Éowyn of Rohan.
Finduilas, by Catherine Chmiel.
Faramir was born in the year TA 2983 to Denethor II and Finduilas, daughter of Adrahil of Dol Amroth. The following year, his grandfather Ecthelion II died and his father, Denethor, succeeded him as the Ruling Steward of Gondor.
When Faramir was five years old, Finduilas died. Her death caused Denethor to become detached from his family. The relationship between Faramir and Boromir, who was five years older, grew much closer and greater in love. Despite the obvious way that Denethor favored Boromir over Faramir, there was no jealousy or rivalry between them. Boromir protected and helped him, and Faramir looked up to his older brother. Although the siblings were very similar in appearance with their dark hair and grey eyes, it was not so in personality. Boromir was defined to be the more daring one, as well as the more fearless and strong warrior. Faramir’s boldness was incorrectly judged less due to his gentle nature and love of lore and music.
It was this interest that formed a friendship between Faramir and Gandalf the Grey. The youngest son of Denethor learned of what he could from Gandalf’s wisdom and mentoring. Denethor did not approve of Faramir as the "Wizard's pupil", for he neither trusted nor liked the Istar.
Faramir's leadership, skill-in-arms, and swift but hardy judgment proved handy on the battlefield. During the War of the Ring, he was the Captain of the Rangers of Ithilien, who often skirmished with allies of Sauron in that province. Faramir valiantly defended Gondor from the Enemy, but did not enjoy fighting for war’s sake.
Faramir and Boromir at the time of the Witch-king's assault on Osgiliath
In June of 3018, Sauron's forces attacked Osgiliath under the command of the Witch-king, whose presence caused the soldiers to flee across the Anduin. When the last bridge was destroyed, Boromir and Faramir were upon it. With two others, they swam ashore and managed to drive the Orcs back from the Anduin's west shores.
The night before the assault on the city, Faramir had a prophetic dream in which a great wave covered all the land as darkness fell, with a voice out of the west speaking a riddle:
‟Seek for the Sword that was broken:
In Imladris it dwells;
There shall be counsels taken
Stronger than Morgul-spells.
There shall be shown a token
That Doom is near at hand,
For Isildur's Bane shall waken,
And the Halfling forth shall stand”
It came to Faramir twice more, and once to his brother, and the brothers described it to Denethor, who only replied saying only that Imladris was an Elvish name for Rivendell, home of Elrond. Although Faramir had wanted to go for Gondor’s sake, Boromir, with the urging of his father, claimed the right to the errand, deeming it to be dangerous and doubtful. Boromir travelled for nearly four months to reach Rivendell, losing his horse in the process near Tharbad, and arriving just before the Council of Elrond.
Finding Boromir's body in the Anduin
On February 29, 3019 at midnight, Faramir, who was on guard duty on the western shore in Osgiliath, waded down to a boat floating down the Anduin river. To his grief, it contained the dead body of his brother, which was pierced with many wounds. In it lay his sword, broken, but there was no sign of the Great Horn of Gondor, which he and his father had heard distantly blowing to the North three days prior.
Faramir with Frodo and Sam in Ithilien
During a battle with Southrons, Faramir, who had taken over his brother's position as the Captain of the White Tower, encountered the Hobbits Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee, recognizing them to be the Halflings his dream spoke of. After the skirmish, Faramir questioned Frodo about his riddle and Isildur's Bane, but, realizing what he was talking about, quickly switched to the topic of Boromir's death and sought answers as to its circumstances. He then decided to take the pair to Henneth Annûn.
En route, Faramir continued questioning Frodo confidentially, and based on Frodo's answers and his own intuition determined that Frodo was carrying some great evil weapon of the Dark Lord of the Enemy. But rather than take it for himself or Gondor, he assured Frodo he would never use such as weapon.
Faramir ate with Frodo and Sam, and listened to Frodo's tales of their journey up to that point, and in turn told the Hobbits of Gondor's decline. During their discussion, Sam accidentally revealed Boromir's desire for the Enemy’s Ring, Isildur's Bane. Despite the hobbits’ fears, Faramir remained true to his vow, for he was wise enough to realize that such a weapon could not be used for good. With this knowledge, he also realized the peril his brother had faced.
On the very same night, Gollum was spotted fishing in the Forbidden Pool next to Henneth Annûn -- an act punishable by death. However Faramir listened to Frodo’s pleas to spare Gollum’s life, and after interrogating the creature he decided that Frodo and Sam would be free in the Lands of Gondor and Gollum under Frodo's protection. Giving them provisions, he sent them on their way to continue their quest. At their parting, Faramir warned Frodo of Gollum's treacherous nature and that the path Gollum had proposed (Cirith Ungol) had an evil reputation of old.
Faramir and his company retreated to Cair Andros, an island in the River Anduin that guarded the northern approaches to Minas Tirith. After noting that the sky was now covered in complete darkness, Faramir sent his company south to reinforce the garrison at Osgiliath while he and three of his men rode to Minas Tirith directly. Along the way, they were pursued by the Nazgûl, riding Fellbeasts. The men, except Faramir, were unhorsed and it was the Captain, a master of both beasts and men, who was still horsed and rode back to aid the fallen. If Gandalf had not intervened, they would have surely perished.
Faramir rebuked by his father Denethor
Arriving at Minas Tirith, Faramir reported to Denethor and Gandalf of his encounter with Frodo and Sam. Denethor was angered that Faramir had not brought the Ring to Gondor, wishing that he and his brother’s places had been reversed, since Denethor believed that Boromir would have brought the Enemy’s weapon to him.
Denethor sent his remaining son to hold Western Osgiliath against the hosts of the Enemy that outnumbered their own greatly. Although Faramir disagreed with his father’s strategy, he agreed to go.
After a day of fighting the Witch-king's army overwhelmed the men of Gondor and won Osgiliath. Faramir drew back to the Causeway Forts, the defence of which lasted another day, with many of the defenders being wounded or killed. Faramir decided to stay with the rear guard in order to make sure that the retreat over Pelennor Fields would not turn into a rout. As the force neared Minas Tirith it was overtaken by Orcs and Haradrim and Faramir was gravely wounded by a poisonous arrow. Fortunately, Gandalf and Faramir's uncle, Prince Imrahil of Dol Amroth, led a cavalry sortie that successfully covered the retreat. Imrahil bore Faramir back to Denethor, telling him that his son had done great deeds.
Faramir placed on the pyre at Denethor's command
Regretting that he had thanklessly sent his son off in needless peril without his blessing, Denethor, after looking in the palantír, believed that the Ring was captured and the end was near. Thus he ordered his servants to build a funeral pyre for him and his son. Despite the protests of the Hobbit, Peregrin Took (serving the Steward in payment of Boromir's death) that Faramir was still alive, Denethor continued with his plans and released the Hobbit from his service.
Horrified, Pippin went to alert Gandalf and Beregond, one of the Tower Guards. Beregond, who loved his captain enough to abandon his post and risk his life protecting him, stopped the servants from lighting the pyre, killing several. Pippin returned with Gandalf, who intervened by taking Faramir off the pyre as Faramir moaned out to his father in his fevered dreams. Denethor took out a knife, trying to take Faramir back, but Beregond placed himself in front of Faramir. Seeing that he could not win, Denethor lit the pyre and laid himself down upon it, burning himself alive.
Healing Faramir, by Anke Eissmann
Then, Faramir was laid in the Houses of Healing. His wound from the Haradrim arrow, along with weariness and grief concerning his constantly strained relationship with his father and the Black Breath of the Nazgûl (who had hunted Faramir ever since he had left Ithilien), all contributed to his near-death. After the battle, Aragorn came and revived him with athelas. When he awoke, Faramir immediately recognized Aragorn as his rightful king.
Before Aragorn left to lead the soldiers to the Black Gate, he commanded the Warden of the Houses of Healing to have Faramir and Éowyn to remain resting for at least ten days. After Éowyn demanded that the Warden take her to the Steward of the City to have her released so she could ride out in battle, Faramir, whose heart was moved with pity and pierced by her beauty, told Éowyn that he too, had to heed the advice of the Warden. He fulfilled her request to have her room look east to Mordor and asked her to talk with him at times.
Faramir and Éowyn walked together in the gardens nearly every day, and he learned from Merry Brandybuck of Éowyn's despair of feeling trapped, waiting on the waning of Théoden, and of Aragorn's rejection of her love.
Faramir and Éowyn together looking towards Mordor
On March 25, Faramir gave Éowyn a dark blue mantle sewn with silver stars that had once belonged to his mother Finduilas, as they stood at the wall that looked towards Mordor. There, they saw a threatening darkness towering over and seeing this, Faramir told her of his dream of the Downfall of Númenor and that the darkness threatening to overtake Middle-earth reminded him of the great wave that swallowed the island. Somehow, to Faramir and the people of the city, a hope and joy welled in their hearts and he kissed Éowyn’s brow. They were later informed by an eagle that Sauron had fallen for good, and that Aragorn would return as king.
Éowyn, however, still felt languished and unfulfilled. Several days after he gave her the mantle, Faramir told her that he understood that she desired to be lifted in greatness and out of the cage she had felt trapped in, and when Aragorn only gave her understanding and pity, instead of love, she had wanted to die valiantly and gloriously in battle. He told her that though he had first pitied her, he now loved her. There, Éowyn’s grief was fully healed, and no longer did she desire glory or greatness and realized that she had come to love Faramir in return.
Faramir briefly served as the Ruling Steward of Gondor, and began preparing the city for the King's arrival. On the day of the King’s official coronation on May 1, Faramir surrendered his office, which was represented by the white rod of the Steward, kneeling as he did so. Aragorn however, gave the rod back, announcing that as long as his line would last, Faramir and his descendants would be Stewards of Gondor. After Faramir had asked the people of Gondor if they accepted Aragorn as their King (which they did), Faramir took the Crown of Gondor out and Aragorn was crowned King Elessar by Gandalf.
King Elessar appointed Faramir as the Prince of Ithilien, and Beregond to be the Captain of his guard, the White Company. As Prince of Ithilien, he and the Prince of Dol Amroth, Gondor's two highest-ranking nobles, became King Elessar's chief commanders. His duties also included acting as resident march-warden of Gondor's main eastward outpost, rehabilitating the lost territories, as well as clearing it of outlaws and Orcs and cleansing the Morgul Vale of evil remnants. Faramir also fulfilled the traditional role as Steward, acting as the King’s chief counsellor as well as ruling Gondor in the King's absence.
Family portrait, by Anke Eissmann
After the funeral of Théoden, Faramir married Éowyn in Edoras. After their marriage, the two settled in Emyn Arnen, where they had at least one son, named Elboron. Elboron would succeed Faramir as Steward of Gondor, Prince of Ithilien, and Lord of Emyn Arnen, after Faramir's death in FO 82.  Faramir lived to be 120 years old, becoming the first Steward since Belecthor II to pass 100, as by a quirk, the blood of Númenor ran true in him. One of his grandsons, Barahir, wrote the Tale of Aragorn and Arwen.
As with the other names of the Kings of Gondor and their heirs, it is possible that the name Faramir is Quenya. It may alternatively be of Sindarin as the Stewards after Mardil Voronwë took their names in that language.
According to Tolkien, Faramir was "modest, fair-minded and scrupulously just, and very merciful". He mentioned once that he did not invent Faramir, though he liked the character very much. As a soldier in World War I, Tolkien connected himself with Faramir, who only loved swords for "which they defend". Among the characters, Tolkien wrote, ""As far as any character is 'like me', it is Faramir".
It is for this reason that Tolkien bestowed his dream of a great wave (that recurred in his family) to Faramir. In one of his letters, he wrote, "For when Faramir speaks of his private vision of the Great Wave, he speaks for me. That vision and dream has been ever with me—and has been inherited (as I only discovered recently) by one of my children, Michael".
In the 1980 animated film The Return of the King, during Aragon's Coronation precession, there is a minor character that is seen on a horse next to Éowyn, it is speculate that this character is Faramir as the couple exchange an affectionate look and are later seen riding out together behind Aragorn.
Faramir in Osgiliath, prepared for the invading Orcs
David Wenham portrays Faramir in Peter Jackson's film trilogy, appearing in The Two Towers and The Return of the King. His depiction in the films differs significantly from his appearance in the novels.
In The Two Towers, Faramir captures Frodo and Sam in Ithilien and holds them prisoner. After capturing and interrogating Gollum, Faramir discovers how Boromir died and that Frodo carries the One Ring. Wishing to impress his father Denethor, Faramir plans to take Frodo and the One Ring to Minas Tirith. It is only in Osgiliath, where he realizes the great evil of the Ring, that he lets Frodo, Sam and Gollum go. A flashback from the extended edition elaborates on Faramir's complex relationship with his father and brother.
Faramir as he appears in The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King
In The Return of the King, Faramir is still in command of Osgiliath when it is overrun by Mordor's armies. After Faramir retreats to Minas Tirith, an enraged Denethor orders him to lead a suicide mission to recapture Osgiliath; Denethor also reveals that he wishes that Faramir had died instead of Boromir. Plagued by guilt, Faramir takes on the mission but is grievously injured.
After Faramir is dragged back to Minas Tirith unconscious, a deranged Denethor plans to burn himself and his younger son alive. Only Gandalf and Pippin's intervention saves Faramir's life. He recovers from his injuries and is present at Aragorn's coronation alongside Éowyn.
In the extended edition, it is revealed that he falls in love with Éowyn in the Houses of Healing while they are both recovering from their injuries.
Many fans of the book criticize the changes Jackson made to Faramir's character, claiming that it seriously damages his persona; some have jokingly dubbed this interpretation "Filmamir" or "Farfromthebookamir", among other names .
Jackson's explanation is that he needed another adventure to delay Frodo and Sam, because the episode at Cirith Ungol was moved to the third movie, and so a new climax was needed. Another explanation often cited is that it was felt that for dramatic reasons it was necessary to show character development, which meant that Faramir had to go through some kind of struggle or difficult decision. Jackson also argued that it was necessary for Faramir to be tempted by the Ring because everyone else was tempted, and letting Faramir be immune would be inconsistent, at least in the eyes of a film audience, and would weaken the films' portrayal of the Ring, which was that of a seduction of normal men.
A number of fans however, remain unimpressed and unconvinced by Jackson's explanations, and have complained that Faramir was changed into a carbon copy of Boromir and have commented that Tolkien himself, who once likened himself to Faramir, would not have liked the way the film characterized him. Jackson counters that the important difference between Boromir and Faramir is retained: Boromir was completely incapable of resisting the temptation of the Ring. Faramir, realizing what his brother went through, what Frodo and Gollum must endure, and his own morals and personality in check, realizes the danger, and freely decides to let Frodo and company go.
Criticism was also leveled at the Rangers' treatment of Gollum. Fans bitterly pointed out that Faramir, whose gentle heart was easily moved by pity, would have never let his men treat a prisoner (no matter how evil) in any way but with kindness. In the book, Faramir refers the to creature as Sméagol instead of Gollum, and told his men to "treat him gently...but watch him".
In the extended edition of The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, Jackson included a new flashback scene showing that Denethor has been neglecting him and favoring Boromir instead, so that Faramir wanted to please his father by bringing him the Ring. (The relationship is similarly strained in the books, but there his father's favoritism never seems to affect his decisions in Ithilien.) Overall, however, new Definitive Edition scenes with Faramir brought the character closer to the sympathetic treatment of the books (the line he is given regarding a fallen Southron belongs to Sam in the books, but is not out of keeping with Faramir's character).
Furthermore, instead of numerous captains and commanders taking charge of Gondor's defense, it is heavily implied throughout the films that when Boromir leaves all responsibility lies on Faramir to take command and defend Gondor, he does this to the best of his ability leading Gondorian forces through a prolonged battle that lasts from Midnight to the afternoon following, despite having legions of Orcs pouring over the Anduin, thankfully his ability to lead a prolonged retreat that lasted the whole night, gave time for Gandalf the white to take over command of Minas Tirith and lead the oncoming siege.
David Wenham joked that he got the role because he and Sean Bean, who played Boromir, both had large noses. A minor change is that in the book, Faramir and his brother are dark-haired and lack beards, but in the films, they have fair hair and are slightly bearded.
In the RTS game The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II, the hero Faramir is voiced by Paul Mercier.
Faramir in his armor
Faramir's Steward garb
Faramir's role in the War of the Ring is relatively minor in the game, as by the time the player reaches Minas Tirith Faramir has already been wounded and lies in a fever. His first prominent appearance is not until King Elessar's coronation. Afterwards, Aragorn charges the Steward and the Rangers of Ithilien with cleansing the evil of Minas Morgul and the Morgul Vale. Faramir leads the Rangers to establish several camps outside the dead city. Eventually he joins Damrod's team inside the walls Minas Morgul itself, working to combat the evil on the upper levels of the city.
Aragorn II, son of Arathorn II and Gilraen, also known as Elessar and Strider, was the 16th and last Chieftain of the Dúnedain of the North; later crowned King Elessar Telcontar (March 1, 2931 - FO 120), the 26th King of Arnor, 35th King of Gondor and first High King of Gondor and Arnor since the short reign of Isildur. He was a great Ranger and warrior, and as Isildur's heir he bore the shards of Narsil, reforged and renamed Andúril, Flame of the West, in the War of the Ring.
Aragorn as a toddler, portrayed by Luke Johnston in the fan film Born of Hope
He was Aragorn son of Arathorn, the nine and thirtieth heir in the right line from Isildur, and yet more like Elendil than any before him.—The Silmarillion, Of the Rings of Power and the Third Age
Aragorn was a descendant of Elros Tar-Minyatur through the line of the Lords of Andúnië to Elendil, High King of Arnor and Gondor. Like all of the kings before him, he was related to Elrond through the House of Elros.  His ancestor Arvedui was wedded to Fíriel, descended from Anárion, who bore their son Aranarth, making Aragorn the last descendant of both Isildur and Anárion.
When he was only two years old, his father Arathorn was killed while pursuing Orcs. Aragorn was afterwards fostered in Rivendell by Elrond. At the request of his mother, his lineage was kept secret, as she feared he would be killed like his father and grandfather if his true identity as the descendant of Elendil and Heir of Isildur became known. Aragorn was renamed "Estel" and was not told about his heritage until 2951.
Young Aragorn with the shards of Narsil, by Anna Lee
Elrond revealed to "Estel" his true name and ancestry when he was twenty, and gave to him the Ring of Barahir and the Shards of Narsil. Elrond withheld the Sceptre of Annúminas from Aragorn until he "came of the right" to possess the item. It was also around this time that Aragorn met and fell in love with Arwen, Elrond's daughter, newly returned from her mother's homeland of Lothlórien where she had been visiting her grandmother Galadriel.
Aragorn thereafter assumed his proper role as the sixteenth Chieftain of the Dúnedain and left the comforts of Rivendell for the wild, where he lived with the remainder of his people, the Rangers of the North, whose kingdom had been destroyed through division and the Angmar Wars centuries before.
Aragorn met Gandalf the Grey in 2956 and they became close friends. Heeding Gandalf's advice, Aragorn and the Rangers began to guard a small land known as the Shire inhabited by the diminutive and agrarian Hobbits, and he became known among the peoples just outside the Shire's borders as Strider.
From TA 2957 to TA 2980, Aragorn undertook great journeys, serving in the armies of King Thengel of Rohan, and Steward Ecthelion II of Gondor. Many of his tasks helped to raise morale in the West and counter the growing threat of Sauron and his allies, and he earned priceless experience which he would later put to use in the War of the Ring. Aragorn served these lords in disguise and his name in Gondor and Rohan during that time was Thorongil ("Eagle of the Star"). With a small squadron of ships from Gondor, he led an assault on the long-standing Corsair city of Umbar in 2980, burning many of the Corsairs' ships and personally slaying their lord during the battle. After the victory at Umbar, "Thorongil" left Gondor and, to the dismay of his men, went east.
Later in 2980, he visited Lothlórien, and there once again met Arwen. He gave her the heirloom of his House, the Ring of Barahir, and, on the hill of Cerin Amroth, Arwen pledged her hand to him in marriage, renouncing her Elvish lineage and accepting the Gift of Men; death.
Elrond withheld from Aragorn permission to marry his daughter until such a time as his foster son should be king of "both" Gondor and Arnor. As both Elrond and Aragorn knew, to marry a mortal, Arwen would be required to choose mortality, and thus deprive the deathless Elrond of his daughter while the world lasted. Elrond was also concerned for Arwen's own happiness, fearing that in the end she might find death (her own and that of her beloved) too difficult to bear.
Before the events of The Lord of the Rings properly take place, Aragorn traveled widely through Middle-earth, entering the Dwarven mines of Moria via the East-gate of Moria but exiting the same way. He also journeyed to Harad, where (in his own words) "the stars are strange". Tolkien indicated that these travels occurred after TA 2980, but does not indicate what happened during Aragorn's visits.
In TA 3009, Gandalf grew suspicious of the origin of the Ring belonging to the Hobbit Bilbo Baggins, which later turned out to be the One Ring, the key to the Dark Lord Sauron's power. Setting a guard of Rangers on the Shire, Aragorn went at Gandalf's request into Rhovanion in search of Gollum, who had once possessed the Ring. He caught the creature in the Dead Marshes near Mordor, and brought him as a captive to Thranduil's Halls in Mirkwood, where Gandalf questioned him. Gollum, however, escaped some time later with the aid of Sauron's Orcs.
What his right name is I've never heard: but he's known round here as Strider.—Barliman Butterbur, speaking of Aragorn in The Fellowship of the Ring, "At the Sign of the Prancing Pony"
Strider at The Prancing Pony in Bree
Aragorn returned with Gandalf in the spring of TA 3018, and then went away on his own journey, and was not able to help when Gandalf discovered the Nazgûl were seeking for Frodo and the Ring in the Shire. After Frodo left Hobbiton, Gildor Inglorion informed Aragorn that the Nine were looking for him and Gandalf was missing. Aragorn continued to watch the Great East Road until Tom Bombadil and the four hobbits came from the Barrow-downs. Following them to Bree, he met Frodo at the Inn of the Prancing Pony under the name "Strider," as the Men of Bree called him. Though originally the hobbits were suspicious of him, Barliman Butterbur brought a letter from Gandalf that made them trust him. Aragorn was aged 87 at that time, nearing the prime of life for one of royal Númenórean descent.
After the raid on Bree, Aragorn led the Hobbits out of Bree-land and through the Midgewater Marshes. While there, he saw Gandalf's battle with the Nazgûl on Weathertop from a distance. When they themselves came to Weathertop, they discovered five of the Nazgûl had followed them, and during the later attack he fought off the Ringwraiths. After attempting to heal Frodo with athelas, he led them across the Lone-lands towards the Trollshaws. They met with the Elf-lord Glorfindel who led them to the Ford of Bruinen. When the Nazgûl caught up with them and Elrond released a flood, Aragorn and the Hobbits kindled fire and flushed out those Nazgûl that had remained on the western bank. He then accompanied Frodo to Rivendell.
During the feast of victory, Aragorn was gathering news from Elladan and Elrohir, and later helped his friend Bilbo compose his Lay of Eärendil. During the Council of Elrond, he revealed himself to Boromir as the heir of Isildur and described his capture of Gollum. After Elrond decided that the Ring must be destroyed in Mordor, Frodo took the burden upon himself. There, Aragorn chose to join Frodo, thus forming the Fellowship of the Ring, tasked with accompanying Frodo in destroying the Ring in the fires of Mount Doom. Besides Aragorn, Gandalf, and Frodo, the company included Frodo's cousins Pippin and Merry, his best friend Samwise Gamgee, Legolas the Elf, Gimli the Dwarf, and Boromir of Gondor.
All that is gold does not glitter,
Not all those who wander are lost;
The old that is strong does not wither,
Deep roots are not reached by the frost.
From the ashes a fire shall be woken,
A light from the shadows shall spring;
Renewed shall be Blade that was Broken,
The crownless again shall be king.
Before the group set out, the shards of Narsil were re-forged, and the restored blade was named Andúril.
Aragorn and Gandalf had been planning their journey to Mordor for weeks. He and Gandalf guided the Fellowship south along the line of the Misty Mountains. When they came to Hollin, Aragorn grew suspicious due to the lack of any sound he heard and spotted the Crebain who were spying out the land for Saruman. He then convinced Gandalf to try the pass over Caradhras. However, while they were still far down the mountain, they were caught in a freak storm brought on by Sauron, and were forced to retreat. Aragorn, together with Boromir, made a path through the snow for the Fellowship to escape.
Aragorn the Ranger in the wild, in the fan film The Hunt for Gollum
After it was proposed to go through Moria, Aragorn reluctantly agreed to go and helped fight off the Wargs that attacked them during the night. Helping to rescue Frodo from the Watcher in the Water, once the company entered Moria, Aragorn remained at the back and noticed Gollum beginning to follow them. After they were attacked in the Chamber of Mazarbul, Aragorn fought off the attackers and killed the Orc-Chieftain, (or Cave-troll in the movies) that had seemingly killed Frodo. During Gandalf's battle with the Balrog on the Bridge of Khazad-dûm, Aragorn ran to his side and became the Fellowship's leader after Gandalf fell, presumed dead. Aragorn then led the company to Lothlórien, where he visited Cerin Amroth for the last time. At their parting, Lady Galadriel gave him the Elfstone.
After Lórien, Aragorn and the Fellowship sailed down the River Anduin to the Falls of Rauros. Aragorn attempted to catch Gollum several times. Though his original plan was to set out for Gondor and aid its people in the war, he felt responsible for Frodo after the loss of Gandalf and was conflicted about what path to take.
Fear not! he said. "Long have I desired to look upon the likenesses of Isildur and Anarion, my sires of old. Under their shadow Elessar, the Elfstone son of Arathorn of the House of Valandil Isildur's son heir of Elendil, has naught to dread!— Aragorn proclaiming his lineage"
Aragorn saying goodbye to Boromir after his death
After passing the Argonath, the Fellowship camped at Parth Galen. Frodo saw that Boromir had been driven mad by the influence of the One Ring, trying to take it. Frodo put the Ring on, rendering him invisible, and ran away from Boromir. Frodo climbed to the high seat on Amon Hen; from there he could see Sauron's eye looking for him. The Hobbit felt the eye but the Dark Lord was distracted by Gandalf the White.
Aragorn at Amon Hen in the film trilogy
At this same time, the others were attacked by Saruman's Uruk-hai and a battle ensued. During the ensuing battle, Boromir was killed defending Merry and Pippin, expressing his remorse privately to Aragorn for trying to take the Ring. After discovering that Frodo had left, Aragorn and the others decided that they would leave Frodo and Sam to rescue Merry and Pippin. Legolas, Gimli, and Aragorn put Boromir's body and war gear in one of the Elven boats as a funeral boat and tribute to Boromir for his bravery and courage. His body would be sent over the Falls of Rauros.
While Frodo continued his quest with Samwise Gamgee, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli went to Rohan to free Merry and Pippin, who had been captured by the Uruk-hai in Saruman's service.
The Three Hunters, by Ted Nasmith
Aragorn ran from Parth Galen across the width of Rohan in just four days. As they approached Fangorn Forest, the "Three Hunters" Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli encountered Éomer, who had recently pursued and routed an Orc-band in the area. From Éomer, Aragorn learned that the Orcs who had kidnapped Merry and Pippin had been destroyed and that the Hobbits had not been found. Dejected, he led Legolas and Gimli to the site of the battle. Clues led Aragorn to believe that the Hobbits might still be alive, and he led the Three Hunters into Fangorn Forest. They did not find the Hobbits, but they did find Gandalf the White, sent back to continue his struggle against Sauron. Gandalf told the Three Hunters that the Hobbits were safe with the Ents of Fangorn.
Where now are the Dunedain, Elessar, Elessar?
Where do thy kinsfolk wander afar?
Near is the hour when the lost should come forth,
And the Grey Company ride from the North.
But dark is the path appointed to thee:
The Dead watch the road that leads to the Sea.
Together, Gandalf and the Three Hunters travelled to Edoras, where Gandalf freed Théoden from Saruman's enchantment and helped him organize the Rohirrim against Saruman. He allied with Théoden and led the refugees to Helm's Deep.
Night Battle on Helm's Deep, by Shin Lin
Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli then helped the people of Rohan in the Battle of the Hornburg, in which they conclusively defeated Saruman's army. Afterward Aragorn went with Gandalf to Isengard, only to find it in ruins by the work of the Ents. Aragorn, being present with Gandalf, Théoden, Éomer, Legolas and Gimli, negotiated in a final parley with Saruman. Saruman attempted to bend Théoden to his will, and at first the king was almost swayed, but mastering his will he refused to join with Saruman. Saruman also attempted to sway Gandalf, but failed in this also, and even so Gandalf offered his counterpart the opportunity for forgiveness. Saruman refused to repent out of pride and to avoid seeming a rebel to Sauron, and thus Gandalf broke Saruman's staff and banished him from the Order of Wizards and the White Council. After Saruman crawled away, Gríma Wormtongue threw the palantír of Orthanc at Gandalf as he and the others were leaving. He missed, however, unable to decide if he hated Saruman or Gandalf more, and thus ended the Battle of the Hornburg and the Battle of Isengard. After Pippin revealed himself to Sauron in the stone, Gandalf gave the palantír back to Aragorn.
Not long after the Grey Company of Rangers arrived from the north, dispatched by Galadriel. With them rode Elladan and Elrohir and Halbarad, bearing a standard made for him by Arwen. When Aragorn returned to Helms Deep, he decided to draw Sauron out and used the palantír to show himself and Andúril to the Dark Lord, wrenching the Stone to his will after a long struggle with the Dark Lord. However, this led Sauron to swiftly send out the forces he had long prepared to attack Minas Tirith.
Aragorn and the Army of the Dead attack the Orcs
In order to defend the city, Aragorn travelled the Paths of the Dead, and summoned the Dead Men of Dunharrow who owed allegiance to the Heir of Isildur. It had been prophesied by Isildur and Malbeth the Seer that the Dead would be summoned once more to pay their debt for betraying Gondor an age before. With their aid the Corsairs of Umbar were defeated at the Battle of Pelargir.
Aragorn, a small force of Rangers, and a large contingent of men and soldiers from the southern regions then sailed up the Anduin to Minas Tirith. When they arrived at the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, Aragorn unfurled a standard that Arwen had made for him which showed both the White Tree of Gondor along with the jeweled crown and seven stars of the House of Elendil. With the help of the southern forces the armies of Gondor and Rohan rallied together and defeated Sauron's army.
The Steward Denethor II declared that he would not bow to a descendant of Isildur (years before, he had seen "Thorongil" as a rival to his father's favor and soon discovered his true identity) and burned himself to death during the battle, despairing of final victory. Aragorn healed Faramir, Denethor's last heir, Éowyn and Merry, who together slew the Witch-king as well as many others. This won him the immediate recognition of Faramir as rightful heir to the throne; his humility and self-sacrifice gained him the hearts of the inhabitants of Gondor's capital city. Aragorn's healing abilities, moreover, were a sign to the people of Gondor of the identity of their true king; as Ioreth said, "The hands of the King are the hands of a healer, and so shall the rightful king be known." The people hailed him as King that same evening.
Despite his immediate success and popularity, however, and despite his claim to the throne through raising the royal banner, Aragorn decided to lay aside his claim for the time being. He knew that if he aggressively promoted his claim, rival claimants or debates as to his legitimacy were not out of the question, and this could be a fatal distraction for Gondor at a time when the West needed to be united against Sauron. So, to avoid conflict, after he had healed people during the following nights of March 15–16, he left Minas Tirith and symbolically refused to enter it again until he was crowned King on May 1.
Aragorn then led the Army of the West to Mordor as per the advice of Gandalf and Elrond, to divert Sauron's attention from Frodo and Sam. They marched over the Anduin river and came to Minas Morgul, and set fire to the fields there. Leaving a guard at the Cross-roads, they began to march north through Ithilien, and Aragorn won a skirmish against some Orcs and Easterlings that tried to ambush them. They then reached the desert before Mordor, and Aragorn allowed those who were afraid to depart to retake Cair Andros. The Army of the West then reached the Black Gate, and Aragorn along with Gandalf, Éomer, Imrahil, Pippin, Legolas and Gimli rode up to it and called for Sauron to come forth. He then watched as the Mouth of Sauron revealed Sauron knew about Frodo and Sam, and saw Gandalf's rejection of Sauron's terms. The Host of the West was then encircled by Sauron's forces, a vast army of Orcs and Men. Aragorn then arranged the Army of the West defensively on two Slag Hills and the Battle of the Black Gate began.
After the destruction of the Ring and the defeat of Sauron, Aragorn presided over the clearing out of the final Orcs in Mordor, the freeing of the slaves of Núrn and the healing of the Host.
Men of Gondor, hear now the Steward of this Realm! Behold! One has come to claim the kingship again at last. Here is Aragorn, son of Arathorn, chieftain of the Dúnedain of Arnor, Captain of the Host of the West, bearer of the Star of the North, wielder of the Sword Reforged, victorious in battle, whose hands bring healing, the Elfstone, Elessar of the line of Valandil, Isildur's son, Elendil's son of Númenor. Shall he be king and enter into the City and dwell there?" And all the host and all the people cried yea with one voice.—Faramir the Steward announces the coronation of King Elessar
Aragorn, son of Arathorn, King of Gondor
Upon Sauron's defeat, Aragorn was crowned as King Elessar, a name given to him by Galadriel and adopted by the people of Gondor because of the Elfstone he wore. He became the twenty-sixth King of Arnor, thirty-fifth King of Gondor, and the first High King of the Reunited Kingdom, though it would be several years before his authority was firmly re-established in Arnor. His line was referred to as the House of Telcontar (Telcontar being Quenya for "Strider"). Aragorn married Arwen shortly afterwards, and ruled the Kingdom of Gondor and Arnor until 120 of the Fourth Age. His reign was marked by great harmony and prosperity within Gondor and Arnor, and by a great renewal of cooperation and communication among Men, Elves, and Dwarves, fostered by his vigorous rebuilding campaign following the war. Aragorn led the forces of the Reunited Kingdom on military campaigns against some Easterlings and Haradrim, re-establishing rule over all the territory that Gondor had lost in previous centuries.

During his coronation, Aragorn spoke Elendil's Oath: "Et Eärello Endorenna utúlien. Sinome maruvan ar Hildinyar tenn' Ambar-metta!" ("Out of the Great Sea to Middle-earth I am come. In this place, I will abide, and my heirs, unto the ending of the world.")
Then a great beauty was revealed in him, so that all who after came there looked on him in wonder; for they saw that the grace of his youth, and the valour of his manhood, and the wisdom and majesty of his age were blended together. And long there he lay, an image of the Kings of Men in glory undimmed before the breaking of the world.— Description of Aragorn's death.
Aragorn's funeral
When in the year 120 of the Fourth Age, King Elessar realised his days were at an end, he went to the House of the Kings in the Silent Street. He said farewell to his son Eldarion and his daughters and gave Eldarion his crown and sceptre. Arwen remained at Aragorn's side until he died. A year after Aragorn's death, Arwen died in Lothlórien of a broken heart. Eldarion began his reign as the second King of the Reunited Kingdom after his father's death.
Was there ever anyone like him? Except Gandalf, of course. I think they must be related.—Peregrin Took on Aragorn
Matt Stewart's conception of Aragorn at The Prancing Pony
Tolkien gives this description of Aragorn in The Lord of the Rings: lean, dark, tall, with "a shaggy head of dark hair flecked with grey, and in a pale stern face a pair of keen grey eyes."
In The Tale of Aragorn and Arwen, he was said to be often grim and sad, with unexpected moments of levity. Some time after the publications of the books, Tolkien wrote that he was six feet six inches tall.
Aragorn possessed Elven wisdom due to his childhood in Rivendell with Elrond and the foresight of the Dúnedain. He was also a skilled healer, notably with the plant Athelas (also known as Kingsfoil). He was also a mighty warrior and an unmatched commander; after the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, he, Éomer, and Imrahil were said to be left unscathed, even though they had been in the thick of the fighting.
Aragorn as High King, by Jay Johnstone
Though there is no indication of his ever doubting his role and destiny as the future king of the Reunited Kingdom and one of the leaders of the war against Sauron (as he did in Peter Jackson's film), he was not immune to self-doubt, as he doubted the wisdom of his decisions while leading the Fellowship after the loss of Gandalf in Moria, and blamed himself for many of their subsequent misfortunes.
On one occasion, his pride or reverence for his heritage led to complication, as he refused to disarm and leave his sword Andúril (a priceless ancient heirloom and the weapon which cut the ring from Sauron's hand) at the door of Edoras, as Théoden had required, and only did so after Gandalf left his own sword (also of high lineage) behind. Even so, he swore that death would come somehow to anyone else that touched it.
He also appeared to possess a nigh-indomitable will. At one point, he was able to psychically challenge Sauron for control of the palantír of Orthanc, and proved victorious in that struggle. It should be noted that even Gandalf the White was reluctant to use the palantír for fear of challenging Sauron directly and revealing himself to the Dark Lord. His fortitude in the face of the Army of the Dead was unwavering and his companions remarked that he was mighty indeed in the strength of his will. He was accounted as "the hardiest of living Men" during his lifetime.
Aragorn with Andúril, Flame of the West
The name Aragorn means "revered king", from the Sindarin ara ("king") and (n)gorn ("revered"). Aragorn was named after Aragorn I.
As king, Aragorn had many titles:
The restoration of the line of Elendil to the throne of Gondor is a subplot of The Lord of the Rings; Aragorn's adventures not only aid Frodo in his Quest, but also bring him closer to his own kingship which, though his by right and lineage, has been left open for centuries due to historical, legal, and military circumstances. The people of Gondor have been under the rule of the Stewards of Gondor for nearly a millennium, as it was widely doubted that any of the royal line still lived. After the Disaster of the Gladden Fields, Meneldil, son of Anárion, had severed Gondor from Arnor politically, although the formal title of High King remained with the northern line (as Isildur was Elendil's eldest son). This arrangement had been reinforced by the Steward Pelendur after nearly 2,000 years when he rejected Arvedui's claim to the throne of Gondor during a succession crisis (Eärnil, a member of the House of Anárion, was eventually chosen as King instead). It is worth noting, however, that Arvedui had also based his claim on the fact that he had married a descendant of Anárion: thus, Aragorn was technically a descendant of not only Isildur but of Anárion as well.
The "first term" of the character that later evolved into Aragorn or Strider was a peculiar hobbit met by Bingo Bolger-Baggins (precursor of Frodo Baggins) at the inn of The Prancing Pony. His description and behavior, however, was already quite close to the final story, with the difference that the hobbit wore wooden shoes, and was nicknamed Trotter for the "clitter-clap" sound that they produced. He was also accounted to be "one of the wild folk — Rangers", and he played the same role in Frodo's journey to Rivendell as in The Lord of the Rings.
Later Tolkien hesitated about the true identity of "Trotter" for a long time. One of his notes suggested that the Rangers should not be hobbits as originally planned, and that this would mean that Trotter was either a Man or a hobbit who associated himself with the Rangers and was "very well known" (within the story). The latter suggestion was linked to an early comment of Bingo: "I keep on feeling that I have seen him somewhere before". Tolkien made a proposal that Trotter might be Bilbo Baggins himself, but rejected that idea.
Another suggestion was that Trotter was "Fosco Took (Bilbo's first cousin), who vanished when a lad, owing to Gandalf". This story was further elaborated, making Trotter a nephew of Bilbo, named Peregrin Boffin, and an elder cousin of Frodo. He was said to have run away after he came of age, some twenty years before Bilbo's party, and had helped Gandalf in tracking Gollum later. A hint was also given as to why Trotter wore wooden shoes: he had been captured by the Dark Lord in Mordor and tortured, but saved by Gandalf; a note was added by Tolkien in the margin, saying that it would later be revealed that Trotter had wooden feet.
The conception of Trotter being a hobbit was discarded with the following recommencing of writing; another short-lived idea was to make Trotter "a disguised Elf − friend of Bilbo's in Rivendell", and a scout from Rivendell who "pretends to be a Ranger".
Quite soon Tolkien finally settled on the Mannish identity of Trotter, from the beginning introducing him as a "descendant of the ancient men of the North, and one of Elrond's household", as well as the name Aragorn. While the history of Númenor and the descendants of Elros and Elendil were not fully developed, the terms of it were in existence, and would come to be connected with The Lord of the Rings as the character of Aragorn developed. Thus the evolution of the history of the Second and Third Ages was dependent on the bringing of Trotter to association with them.
The development of Aragorn's connection to Gondor was long and complex, as was his association with Boromir. Initially it is said that Aragorn's forefathers were the exiles of Númenor who ruled over the people of Ond (the early name of Gondor), but were driven out by the Wizard King "when Sauron raised a rebellion". The story of the two branches of Elendil's descendants ruling over two kingdoms of Men through many generations only emerged gradually; at one time, Tolkien even seems to have conceived only three generations between Isildur and Aragorn.
One significant feature which was not established until late stages was Aragorn's relationship with Arwen. When Tolkien first introduced Éowyn, the interest which she showed towards Aragorn was not one-sided, with suggestions in notes that they would marry at the end of the story. Another proposal was done soon, that Éowyn would die to save or avenge Théoden, and Aragorn would never marry after her death.
The first mention of Elrond's daughter, named Arwen Undómiel, was in reference to the banner which she made for Aragorn, but Tolkien did not give any hint whether she had any further part to play. The references to her marriage with Aragorn were made later, but it was explicitly stated only near the completion of the book. It is only in his working on the appendices for The Lord of the Rings that Tolkien recorded the full Tale of Aragorn and Arwen.
A passing idea was that Galadriel gave her Ring to Aragorn, and that he would accordingly be titled the "Lord of the Ring".
The original nickname Trotter was retained for a long while, and Tolkien decided to change it to Strider only after the story was completed. There were also several experimental translations of Trotter to Sindarin: Padathir, Du-finnion and Rimbedir, with Ecthelion possibly being equivalent to Peregrin (Boffin). Instead of the latter title "the Dúnadan", Quenya Tarkil ("Noble Man") was first used, synonym with Númenórean.
Tolkien hesitated for some time about Trotter's "real" name. Although Aragorn was the first suggestion when the Mannish descent was settled, it was changed a number of times. At one point Tolkien decided that an Elvish name does not suit a Man, and thus altered it from Aragorn via Elfstone to Ingold, where the last one is an Old English name with ing- representing "west". Later, however, a new plot element was introduced: Galadriel's gift of a green stone, and Tolkien reverted the usage to Elfstone in order to make an additional connection. This was retained into the final version of the legendarium as a side name and a translation of Elessar.
Among other names to be used instead of Elfstone Tolkien considered Elfstan, Elfmere, Elf-friend, Elfspear, Elfwold and Erkenbrand, with various Elvish forms: Eldamir, Eldavel, Eledon, and Qendemir. The name of Aragorn's father also passed through many transient forms: Tolkien intended Aramir or Celegorn to go in pair with Aragorn before settling upon Arathorn; Elfhelm and Eldakar with Elfstone and Eldamir; and Ingrim with Ingold.
Richard J. Finn presented a paper entitled "Arthur and Aragorn - Arthurian Influence in LOTR at the Forty-First International Congress on Medieval Studies". The are additional similarities between Aragorn and Arthur beyond those pointed out by Finn. Arthur is descended from Kings of Goddodin - Coel Hen, Aragorn becomes King of Gondor. Kings of the period in Goddodin lived at both Traprain Law and Din Eidyn (Edinburgh, still known as Dùn Éideann in Scottish Gaelic) remarkably similar to Dúnadan. For "Men of the North", Goddodin was a far northern kingdom. Arthur was crowned by St. Dubriticus, who wore a long grey robe for which he was called "His Grey Eminence" - Gandalf the White also wore a grey robe at Aragorn's coronation to indicate he at one time was Gandalf the Grey.
Sons of Gondor, of Rohan! My brothers! I see in your eyes the same fear that would take the heart of me! A day may come when the courage of men fails, when we forsake our friends and break all bonds of fellowship. But it is not this day! An hour of wolves and shattered shields when the Age of Men comes crashing down! But it is not this day! This day we fight! By all that you hold dear on this good earth, I BID YOU STAND, MEN OF THE WEST!!—Aragorn encouraging the Men of Rohan and Gondor
Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn II
In The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy (2001 – 2003) directed by Peter Jackson, Aragorn is played by Danish-American actor Viggo Mortensen, who took over the role from Stuart Townsend after a month of rehearsals. In these movies, Aragorn must overcome his self-doubt to claim the kingship. This specific element of self-doubt is not present in Tolkien's books, where Aragorn intends to claim the throne all along. Daniel Day-Lewis was offered the role, but declined.
In order to ensure safe passage across Mordor for Frodo to fulfill his quest, Aragorn then led the Army of the West out from Minas Tirith to make a diversionary feint on the Black Gate of Mordor itself in the Battle of the Morannon. Gandalf had been given supreme command of the war effort after the Pelennor Fields, and acted as chief spokesman in the parley with the Mouth of Sauron; but Aragorn commanded the Allied troops during the battle and its aftermath.
In the film adaptation, Aragorn never carries the shards of Narsil as he did in the books, and only receives the reforged Andúril before entering the Paths of the Dead. Up until this time, Aragorn uses a different, more basic sword that is never given a name. Attached to the scabbard of this sword is a small utility knife that Aragorn uses in the wild country.
Aragorn's dagger given by Celeborn
Aragorn also uses a long, curved dagger in battle, though a lot less frequently than his sword. This dagger is used for close combat and as a last resort if the sword is useless in a particular situation, such as when Aragorn is knocked down or assassinating Sauron's servants. He received a curved dagger from Celeborn in the movie, upon leaving Lothlórien. In The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (video game), Aragorn uses his dagger as a finishing blow for his Final Judgment and Warrior Bane combos.
Near the end of the first movie The Fellowship of the Ring, in the scene where Aragorn fights the Uruk-hai Captain Lurtz, Aragorn uses his sword to deflect his Elvish dagger, which Lurtz threw at him after he stabbed him in the leg with it. This was not meant to happen as in the original script the knife was supposed to miss and hit the tree behind Aragorn, though the mask Lurtz's actor was wearing restricted his vision, causing him to miss his mark and throw the knife directly at Aragorn. Luckily he was able to use his sword to deflect the knife just in time. Peter Jackson decided to keep that scene rather than the one originally planned.
Aragorn with a bow in the Balin's Tomb sequence
Aragorn's next weapon in his arsenal is his bow. This bow is rarely used at all. Aragorn only uses it in Moria, shooting Goblins in the beginning of the Fight in Balin's Tomb and while fleeing the Bridge of Khazad-dûm. During these few scenes, Aragorn shows that, though he does not have the expert bow skill and speed that Legolas possesses, he is still an effective shooter when he successfully brings down two goblins through small cracks in the door.
In The Two Towers and The Return of the King video games, Aragorn's missile weapon is his bow and arrows. In each case, Aragorn has 30 arrows.
Aragorn's final weapon is the Black Stone. He uses it once in The Return of the King to summon the Oathbreakers and defeat the Corsairs of Umbar. He is not shown using it in the movie adaptation.
In The Lord of the Rings: Conquest, Aragorn's special, heavy attack is to summon the Army of the Dead.
In The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II, Aragorn's most powerful ability is to summon the Army of the Dead, which appears as four abnormally large, invincible ghost units, who can kill infantry almost instantly, though they are weak against buildings. The only units capable of doing any sort of damage to the Dead are heroes, which even then get immediately wiped out.
While not appearing physically in Peter Jackson's The Hobbit film trilogy, he is alluded to by Thranduil to Legolas in The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies. In a departure from the books, he is stated to already be a Ranger and well known among his people, rather than a ten year old child. Thranduil only told him that the Ranger's name was Strider and that he was the son of Arathorn, telling him that he would have to find out Strider's true name for himself.
Given that Aragorn was 87 in The Two Towers, he would have been 27 during The Hobbit film series, since the original trilogy omitted the 17 year gap between where Gandalf leaves Frodo and finds out about the Ring's origin.
Ralph Bakshi's Aragorn
Aragorn was voiced by John Hurt in Ralph Bakshi's 1978 animated film version of The Lord of the Rings. Bakshi's Aragorn, unlike all other portrayals that were to follow to date, has no beard. This actually conforms to a statement appearing in Unfinished Tales that implicitly says that Aragorn was not supposed to have one, due to his Elvish ancestry (Elves did not grow beards). In a note written in 1972 or later, among the last writings of my father's on the subject of Middle-earth, there is a discussion of the Elvish strain in Men, as to its being observable in the beardlessness of those who were so descended (it was a characteristic of all Elves to be beardless. However, Tolkien actually wrote elsewhere that Elves did have beards; in The Lord of the Rings itself Círdan is described as having a beard. Also, some viewers and critics have said that this version of Aragorn looks Native American though not necessarily to the detriment of the film.
Rankin/Bass's Aragorn
Aragorn was voiced by Theodore Bikel in the 1980 Rankin/Bass animated version of The Return of the King, made for television. He first appears at the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, leading the reinforcements from southern Gondor.
(See the stage article: The Lord of the Rings)
Aragorn was portrayed by Evan Buliung in the three-hour production of The Lord of the Rings, which opened in 2006 in Toronto, Canada.
In the United States, Aragorn was portrayed by Josh Beshears in the Cincinnati, Ohio production of The Return of the King (2003) for Clear Stage Cincinnati. At Chicago's Lifeline Theatre, Aragorn was played by Robert McLean in the 1999 production of The Two Towers.
In the fan-film Born of Hope, Aragorn appears as a two-year-old toddler played by the child actor Luke Johnston.
Sneaky hobbit (by Gollum)
Valery Dyachenko (Khraniteli)
Frodo Baggins, son of Drogo Baggins, was a hobbit of the Shire in the late Third Age. He is commonly considered Tolkien's most renowned character for his leading role in the Quest of the Ring, in which he bore the One Ring to Mount Doom, where it was destroyed. He was a Ring-bearer, best friend to his gardener, Samwise Gamgee, and was one of three hobbits who sailed from Middle-earth to the Uttermost West at the end of the Third Age.
Much of Frodo's youth was spent at Brandy Hall in Buckland, the ancestral home of the Brandybuck family, including his mother (Primula Brandybuck). Frodo was known as something of a rascal, befriending Meriadoc (Merry) Brandybuck and Peregrin (Pippin) Took and causing trouble wherever they went. They would often steal mushrooms from Farmer Maggot's farm Bamfurlong.
In TA 2980, when Frodo was only 12 years old, his parents drowned in a boating accident on the Brandywine River. An only child, Frodo stayed in Brandy Hall until his 99-year-old "uncle" Bilbo, his father's second cousin, adopted him in TA 2989. Bilbo took Frodo to live with him in his home at Bag End and made him his heir.
Frodo Baggins as seen by Matthew Stewart
The two grew very close in the following years; Frodo learned much of the Elvish language during his time with Bilbo, as well as much of the lore of Middle-earth. They also had a weekly tradition of taking long walking trips together from Hobbiton to Michel Delving and Buckland; all throughout the Shire. The two shared the same birthday, September 22 by Shire Reckoning (around September 12–14 of our calendar), and a party of special magnificence was held when Frodo came of age of thirty-three and Bilbo achieved the notable age of 111.
Bilbo gave a memorable birthday speech before playing a joke on his fellow hobbits by using the One Ring to disappear, at which Gandalf quickly reacted and used his staff to create a blinding flash where Bilbo had been standing. The hobbits at the party were left confused and disgruntled, and Bilbo was never again seen in the Shire.
Before departing for his journey to Rivendell, Bilbo had a long conversation with Gandalf, who finally persuaded him to voluntarily surrender the One Ring. Bilbo left it on the fireplace mantel with a note for Frodo, who would now become the next Ring-bearer.
After the party finished, Frodo returned home and discovered that he was now the master of Bag End and the recipient of Bilbo's magic Ring. Gandalf, ever more curious about the Ring's origin, power, and purpose (but not yet positive it was the One Ring), advised the young hobbit against the using the Ring. For the next seventeen years, Frodo complied with the wizard's request and hid the Ring in a safe place. However, on April 12, 3018, Gandalf returned to Bag End and warned Frodo that the Ring was actually the One Ring, which the Dark Lord Sauron needed to rule over Middle-earth. Realizing that Sauron would be looking for the Ring, Gandalf advised the Hobbit to secretly follow Bilbo's journey to Rivendell.
Gandalf telling Frodo the story of the One Ring
Frodo with Bilbo during his 111th birthday
After Frodo's discussion with Gandalf, a rumor started that he was running out of money. This rumor, although not begun by Frodo, was encouraged by him. Merry helped Frodo to purchase a small house at Crickhollow. With the exception of his gardener Sam Gamgee, who had agreed to accompany him to Rivendell, Frodo told the other Hobbits of the Shire that he intended to move to Buckland. He sold his home to the Sackville-Bagginses, and, on the September 23, 3018, the day after his fiftieth birthday, Frodo left from Bag End, taking with him Sam and Pippin. They left in the early morning for Bree, and just in time, as Sauron's most powerful servants, the nine Nazgûl, had entered the Shire dressed as Black Riders searching for a hobbit with the name of Baggins.
Frodo was nearly captured by a Black Rider on the road, but was saved by Gildor Inglorion, whom he asked for advice. Leaving the roads to cut across country, Frodo and Sam reached Farmer Maggot's farm, who helped them to evade the Riders. Meeting Merry at Bucklebury Ferry, they saw a Rider tracking them from the bank they'd departed from. On arrival at Crickhollow, Frodo found that Merry and Pippin already knew about his "secret" journey. Frodo was left with no alternative but to bring the two youngsters with him. They cut through the Old Forest and the Barrow-downs in hopes of losing the Black Riders, which did succeed. They met other troubles in those places though, at the hands of Old Man Willow and the Barrow-wights, but were rescued twice by Tom Bombadil, a mysterious being who dwelt in a glade in the middle of the Old Forest.
Frodo meeting Strider at The Prancing Pony
In Bree, the hobbits stayed at The Prancing Pony, an old inn. Frodo went by the name of Mr Underhill, attempting to raise as little suspicion as possible. When he noticed a mysteriously cloaked Man sitting in the shadows and smoking a long-stemmed pipe, Frodo asked the innkeeper, Barliman Butterbur, who the man was. The innkeeper referred to the man, a Ranger, as Strider.
That night, Black Riders arrived in Bree and attacked the inn in search of Frodo and the One Ring, but Strider had managed to hide the Hobbits from them in time. Having gained their trust, Strider introduced himself as Aragorn to Frodo and the others, to whom he also revealed the backstory of the black riders, also called Nazgûl or Ringwraiths. With a pony named Bill that the Hobbits had acquired at Bree, Strider led Frodo and his companions into the Wild. Aragorn would be their guide to Rivendell, and he would lead them through the Midgewater Marshes and to the hill of Weathertop.
Frodo is stabbed by the Witch-king's Morgul-knife
On the night of October the sixth, the Hobbits were attacked by five of the nine Ringwraiths at Weathertop. In the presence of the Nazgûl, Frodo made the mistake of putting on the Ring. He was able to resist their attempt to take him by drawing his sword and invoking the name of one of the Valar, Elbereth Gilthoniel. Unfortunately, the leader of the Nazgûl, the Witch-king of Angmar, stabbed Frodo in the shoulder (he would have stabbed his heart) with a Morgul-knife. If it had caught him in the heart, Frodo would have become like the Nazgûl, only weaker and under their control. The Ringwraiths were driven away by the appearance of Aragorn and his martial skill; also because he had torches, one of their few weaknesses.
Though Aragorn was a skilled healer, he could not heal Frodo's wound. A fragment of the Ringwraith's blade remained in Frodo's flesh, where it continued to move towards his heart. Near death (or worse), Frodo was rescued by Glorfindel, an Elf-lord, who put the injured Hobbit upon his horse Asfaloth. They were found and pursued by the Nazgûl, as Glorfindel rode and bore Frodo swiftly to the Ford of Bruinen, at the entrance to the valley of Rivendell. Once they had crossed the River Bruinen, the Nine Ringwraiths behind them demanded Frodo give up the Ring, but Frodo refused. Subsequently, the Ringwraiths entered the river and were washed away in a flood called up by Elrond.
The Hobbits reuniting in Rivendell
Frodo was soon healed in Rivendell by Elrond, who knew the wound would not ultimately leave him, as it was both spiritual and physical. On the 24th of October 3018, Frodo awoke in Rivendell and was reunited with Bilbo, Gandalf, Aragorn, Sam, Merry, and Pippin. Although Elrond had healed his wound, it continued to ail him yearly for as long as he lived in Middle-earth.
Frodo placing the One Ring before the Council of Elrond
After his healing, Frodo was summoned to a great Council that Elrond had organized. Representatives of all the Free Peoples of Middle-earth discussed the history of the Rings of Power and decided that the One Ring must be destroyed. As the Ring was shown and tempers flared, argument broke out as to who should carry the Ring on this mission, until Frodo bravely volunteered to take the Ring to Mordor and cast it into the fires of Mount Doom. A member of each of the Free Peoples offered to join Frodo in his quest, thus forming the Fellowship of the Ring.
The Fellowship consisted of Frodo, Samwise, Merry, Pippin, Aragorn, Gandalf, Boromir of Gondor, Legolas of the Woodland Realm, and Gimli of the Lonely Mountain. Before leaving Rivendell, Bilbo gave Frodo his dwarf-made coat of mithril mail and his elven blade Sting. The mithril coat had been given to Bilbo by Thorin Oakenshield during the events of The Hobbit, and Sting had been taken by Bilbo from a troll den. On December 25, the Fellowship of the Ring departed from Rivendell and headed south.
The Hobbits of the Fellowship of the Ring prepare to battle goblins in Moria
After an attack by White Wolves in Eregion, on January 11, 3019, the Fellowship attempted to cross the Misty Mountains (specifically the Pass of Caradhras), but were unable to due to a snowstorm. They instead traveled through the underground city of Moria at the urging of Gimli.
Some days in into their dangerous trek through Moria, the Fellowship entered the Chamber of Mazarbul, and was attacked by Orcs and a cave-troll. Frodo helped to defeat the troll before he was stabbed by an Orc captain, his mithril-shirt saving him from a deadly blow. The Fellowship then ran from there to the Bridge of Khazad-dum, at which Gandalf dueled Durin's Bane and fell. Once outside Moria, while the Fellowship was grieving, Gimli took Frodo and Sam to look upon the Mirrormere, even in their great hurry.
Galadriel and Frodo
Deeply grieved by their loss, the Fellowship journeyed to the Elven kingdom of Lothlórien, where they met the Lady Galadriel and Lord Celeborn. Galadriel showed Frodo a vision of the future in her Mirror. Frodo offered her the One Ring, but she resisted the temptation to take it, passing the test that was laid before her, and accepting the diminishing of the power of the Elves. Before the Fellowship departed from Lothlórien, Galadriel gave each member a gift. To Frodo, she gave a phial with the light of the star Eärendil captured inside; this gift would prove hugely important later on in the quest. They were also provided with elven way-bread, other supplies, and boats for their voyage down the Anduin River.
Frodo puts on the One Ring to hide from Boromir
The Fellowship continued their journey south to Parth Galen. There, Boromir, a Man of Gondor and a member of the Fellowship, attempted to convince Frodo to bring the Ring to Minas Tirith and regroup from there. When the hobbit asked for an hour alone to consider his options, Boromir followed him. Seeing that Frodo did not intend to take the suggested course of action, Boromir tried to take the Ring from him by force.
Frodo put on the Ring and escaped to the Seat of Seeing, where he watched as war brewed across Middle-earth and the Eye of Sauron searching for him as he traveled. He was nearly spotted, but the Dark Lord's attention was drawn away by a resurrected Gandalf.
Taking off the Ring, he decided to take the item to Mordor alone, without telling the other members of the Fellowship. However, he was joined by his friend Samwise Gamgee, who felt it was necessary that he should protect and guide Frodo. Frodo gave in to Sam's protests, and although reluctant to lead anyone else to his fate, was glad to have Sam's company.
The two hobbits continued toward Mordor, dividing the Fellowship. Meanwhile, Boromir was killed by Uruk-archers while defending Merry and Pippin; the two young hobbits were then captured by Uruk-hai, and were to be taken to Isengard. Instead of following Samwise and Frodo to Mordor, the Three Hunters, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli, decided it more important to rescue Merry and Pippin from their captors. The breaking of the Fellowship was now complete.
Frodo and Sam journey towards Mordor
After leaving what remained of the Fellowship at Amon Hen, Frodo and Sam tried to navigate through the winding paths and razor sharp rocks of the Emyn Muil. After getting lost several times, they were found by Gollum, who at first tried to take the One Ring, but was captured by Sam (with Frodo's help) and tied up with the Elven rope. Frodo, now pitying the creature, decided not to slay Gollum, but forced him to swear an oath of servitude to the master of the precious. Gollum then led them out of the maze and into the Dead Marshes.
Frodo during the passage of the Marshes
The Dead Marshes lay to the south of Emyn Muil, and were just as disorienting, if not more so. There was thought to be no route through the marshes, as Orcs marched for miles around, although Gollum had secretly discovered a path when traveling. He led Frodo and Sam on a safe pathway through the marshes, warning them not to follow what seemed like small torches in the water.
Soon after Frodo, Samwise, and Gollum entered the Dead Marshes, a Nazgûl flew over them on a Fellbeast, looking for the Ring. Gollum had led the two hobbits to a safe place that they could hide in.
Frodo taken captive by Faramir's Rangers
Gollum led the two Hobbits to the Black Gate of Mordor, as Frodo had desired, but stopped the Hobbits from passing its doors, as the danger was too great. He then explained about a secret way into Mordor, 'Up the stairs and through the tunnel'. The Hobbits once again found themselves being led by Gollum. After venturing into Ithilien, and witnessing a skirmish between a company of Haradrim warriors (along with Oliphaunts) and Rangers from Gondor, they were apprehended by the Ranger's captain, Faramir. When the skirmish had ended, Faramir blindfolded the ring-bearer and his companions and led them to Henneth Annûn, the Window on the West. Upon much interrogation, Sam foolishly misspoke, and gave away that Frodo was indeed carrying the One Ring. Realizing the importance of the quest, Faramir proved his quality, unlike his brother, Boromir, and let the Ring-bearer go free, resupplying the hobbits with food for their journey. Later, Gollum was captured in the Forbidden Pool and forcibly taken into the hidden lair. Frodo begged for his safety, and he was not killed, although the rift between master and servant had once again begun to open.
Frodo prior to being poisoned by Shelob
Gollum led the hobbits past the lair of the Witch-king of Angmar, Minas Morgul, and up the Stairs of Cirith Ungol into 'The Tunnel'. When they arrived at the top though, they were abandoned by Gollum. They cautiously traveled through the tunnel, and managed to get to the end only to find their way barred by Shelob's great web. Whilst attempting to cut through the webbing, Frodo bravely stood up to Shelob and forced her back further into the tunnels giving him and Sam time enough to hack through the threads and escape. Upon escaping the tunnels, Frodo thought himself safe; however, Shelob, through one of her many tunnels, managed to sneak out and jab him with her stinger. As he was being encased in Shelob's webbing, Sam was able to draw her into single combat wherein he, using Sting and the Phial of Galadriel, was able to mortally wound her and drive her back into her caves. Sam took the Ring from around Frodo's neck upon hearing Orcish voices, and hid behind some nearby rocks. He overheard the Orcs speaking of Frodo, and Sam realized that his master was not dead, but merely paralyzed. Frodo was then taken to the Tower of Cirith Ungol to await further torture and questioning.
Frodo was taken to the utmost top of the tower and imprisoned.  He was stripped of all his clothes and all the things he carried. Squabbling over his mithril vest, fighting broke out amongst the two lead Orcs and their battalions, killing almost all the Orcs and Uruks in the tower. Sam arrived at the gate of Cirith Ungol, only to find his way blocked by the Two Watchers; he eventually overcame them, entered the tower where Frodo was held, and rescued his master. They fled the tower, having to pass the Watchers again (although this time destroying them), and entered Mordor.
Frodo and Sam crawled onward through the empty plains of Mordor, as the Orcs had been sent to the Black Gate to stop the Men of the West's army, and, after falling in and out of a company of Orcs, started to climb Mount Doom. They journeyed on for many days with hardly any food or water, and Frodo became progressively weaker as the Ring's power over him grew the closer they came to Orodruin. Frodo was eventually unable to go on, and Sam was forced to carry him a fair distance while his master rested upon his back. It was then that Gollum reappeared, and after a brief struggle, Sam cut Gollum in the stomach, and Frodo fled up the mountain.
Frodo missing a finger
Inside the Cracks of Doom, Frodo finally had the chance to destroy the Ring, and rid himself of his burden, but the power of the Ring was at its strongest due to it being in the place of it's making. It was here that Frodo finally yielded to the temptation and power of the Ring. Sam yelled for Frodo to destroy the Ring, but Frodo was overcome by its power and claimed the Ring for himself. Gollum attacked Sam, who fell and hit his head on a rock, temporarily knocking him unconscious. When he came to he saw Gollum fighting with an unseen foe (Frodo, having put on the Ring). Then Gollum bit off Frodo's finger, Ring and all, and was reunited with his treasure for a short time, until dancing with joy he toppled off the brink and fell into the depths, destroying himself and the One Ring.
Sam and Frodo after the completion of their quest
The two hobbits tried to escape as the volcano erupted. Just as it looked as though they were doomed, Gwaihir the Lord of Eagles saw them, and with his Eagle companions Landroval and Meneldor rescued Sam and Frodo and flew them to safety.
After recovering at the Field of Cormallen and witnessing the crowning of Aragorn as King Elessar, Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin all returned to the Shire. When they arrived though, they found it under the control of an individual named Sharkey (later revealed to be Saruman) and his forces. Saruman was ruling the Shire from Bag End, although he was later murdered by Gríma Wormtongue. Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin however, started to gather all the Shirriffs and townsfolk of the Shire, and they successfully defeated the Ruffians employed by Sharkey at the Battle of Bywater.
Frodo was not directly involved in the fighting at the Battle of Bywater; instead, he made sure that no Hobbits were harmed (saying that no Hobbit had ever intentionally harmed another in the Shire and that it was not going to begin there), and also that any Ruffians that surrendered were not harmed.
Frodo gazing fondly at his friends as he bids them farewell at the Grey Havens
Following the Scouring of the Shire and end of the War of the Ring in November TA 3019, Frodo, went on to serve as Deputy Mayor of the Shire. During his brief tenure of six months, he helped lead the rebuilding of the Shire, but soon realized that he still bore the wounds of his quest.  On May 1st, TA 3020, Frodo attended the wedding of his best friend Sam and his wife Rosie Cotton and they moved in with him at Bag End. On mid-years day later that year, Frodo retired from his post as Deputy Mayor, letting the office revert to Will Whitfoot.  During his last days in middle-earth, he tried to live as peacefully as possible. Frodo was still troubled by his shoulder wound, which pained him on each anniversary of the attack at Weathertop, in addition to falling sick on each anniversary of being stung by Shelob. As such, October 6th of that year, he would suffer from his wounds again. March 13th, TA 3021 brought similar ailments, Frodo being ill from his stinging. While living with Sam and Rosie he would witness the birth of their oldest daughter Elanor twelve days later. Prior to departing Middle-earth, he also wrote his own story "The Lord of the Rings" along with Bilbo's "There and Back Again" in the Red Book of Westmarch.
On 29 September TA 3021 (Third Age), at the age of 53, Frodo joined Bilbo, Gandalf, Elrond and Galadriel aboard an Elven ship. He was allowed passage across the sea to the Undying Lands, as he was a Ring-bearer, with the hope of healing the damage to his spirit that bearing the Ring had caused.
During the Fourth Age, Frodo spent the his days in a period of reflection, attempting to understand his place in Arda, having been given the opportunity as he healed from the trauma afflicted upon him due to his quest during the War of the Ring.
In the year 61, fellow Ring-bearer and best friend Samwise Gamgee, reunited with Frodo in the Undying Lands. By such a point, Frodo would have been 113 and together the friends lived out the rest of their days in peace.
Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin at The Green Dragon
Frodo, as described by Gandalf, was "taller than some and fairer than most, (with) a cleft in his chin: perky chap with a bright eye." (The Fellowship of the Ring, Chapter 10, "Strider")He was a shy, young hobbit with thick, curly brown hair like most other hobbits, and had lighter-than-usual skin due to his Fallohide ancestry through his Brandybuck mother. He could be described as fairly good looking for a hobbit. Frodo is described as appearing thirty-three, even when he is fifty, due to the influence of the Ring.
Bilbo and Frodo shared a common birthday on September 22, but Bilbo was 78 years Frodo's senior. At the opening of The Fellowship of the Ring, Frodo and Bilbo were celebrating their thirty-third and eleventy-first (111th) birthdays, respectively.
Frodo, like Bilbo, was considered by many others in Hobbiton to be a little odd. His curiosity of the outside world, fascination with Elves and faraway places (like those to which Bilbo traveled in The Hobbit) did not fit the general content personality of most Hobbits. This curiosity was also attributed to his Took ancestry. He was very kind and compassionate, pitying Gollum and allowing him to guide him and Sam to Mordor despite Sam's distrust of the creature. This act of kindness later proved to be a factor in the quest's success in destroying the Ring.
The influence of the Ring and the wound by the Morgul knife seems combined to have given him the ability to see into the spirit world, for instance he sees faraway events in his dreams on several occasions. He also can see the ring of power worn by Galadriel and he seems to be able to sense danger.
Frodo was dressed in typical Hobbit-fashion when he left the Shire: knee breeches, shirt, waistcoat, jacket, and cloak. Colors such as bright green and yellow were typical for Shire-folk. He was unarmed, save for a pocketknife.
When his little group was waylaid by Barrow-wights, he lost his summer-weight clothing and was wearing a burial shrift when rescued by Tom Bombadil. When their pack-ponies returned, he was forced to put on heavier woollen clothing intended for colder weather. The Hobbits found several long Dúnedain daggers in the wight's treasure. These served as short-swords for the Hobbits, but Frodo's was broken when he resisted the Witch-king at Weathertop. At Imladris, he removed his Hobbit clothing upon finding new Elven clothes that fitted him perfectly. Therefore, throughout his quest, he wore a green silk tunic, trousers together with cloaks made of fur for the first stages of the quest, and then towards Mordor he shed them to wear his tunic and trousers in the warmer weather. Later, his uncle Bilbo gave him both Sting, a magic Elven dagger, and a coat of mithril chain mail. The mail saved his life twice, first when it deflected a spear-point in the Mines of Moria, and second when it turned aside the dagger that Saruman used to try and kill him.
As with the other members of the Fellowship of the Ring, Frodo received a special cloak from Galadriel in Lórien, which allowed him to blend in with natural surroundings. Upon being betrayed by Gollum and captured by Orcs at Cirith Ungol, Frodo lost all of his clothing and most of his possessions. Sam Gamgee saved Sting, however. After the two tribes of Orcs had slain each other in the tower of Cirith Ungol, Frodo dressed himself in Orc-garb. This successfully fooled the Mordor-Orcs they encountered, but he dropped the Orc mail and helmet as he and Sam approached Mount Doom.
Originally, Frodo was to be named Bingo Bolger-Baggins, but as the work became more serious, that name was dropped.
Frodo Baggins (1978)
Christopher Guard voiced Frodo in Ralph Bakshi's The Lord of the Rings (1978 film) with Sharon Baird doing the modeling.
Frodo Baggins (1980)
Orson Bean voiced Frodo in the Rankin/Bass The Return of the King film, the same actor who portrayed Bilbo in The Hobbit and in The Return of the King.
There are several differences between Peter Jackson's film trilogy and the book The Fellowship of the Ring. In the movies, Frodo seems to have owned the Ring for only a few days or perhaps a few months before Gandalf returned, as opposed to the seventeen years of the book. Frodo never sells Bag End, but sets out early next morning with Sam. Merry and Pippin run into the pair at the farm of Farmer Maggot and are pulled into the journey. The Hobbits are pursued by the Black Riders all the way to Bucklebury Ferry on the borders of Buckland. There the Black Riders are forced to ride to the Brandywine Bridge while the Hobbits make for Bree. The movies remove several parts of the journey as well. These include their encounters with the High Elves, Farmer Maggot, and Tom Bombadil, as well as their visit to Buckland, the Old Forest, and the Barrow-downs.
Arwen, Elrond's daughter, leads Frodo to Rivendell instead of Glorfindel. The Cave-troll inflicts the wound on Frodo in Moria, instead of the Orc captain. In the novel, Faramir declared right from the first that he wanted no part of the One Ring, but in the film Faramir at first follows what he believes is his duty to bring the Ring back to Minas Tirith. But while travelling with Frodo, Sam, and Gollum through the city of Osgiliath, the city is attacked by a Nazgûl and the forces of Mordor, and Faramir realizes he should not take the Ring after he sees the effect it has on Frodo.
Frodo receiving Sting from Bilbo in LEGO The Lord of the Rings
Frodo in The Lord of the Rings Online
Frodo appears in many video games, including:
Frodo was portrayed by Lauren Lopez in a parody of Lord of the Rings by the group Team Starkid.
Elijah Wood reprised his role in an AT&T Streaming app commercial, wherein, shortly after a request was made to see The Lord of the Rings, Frodo requests the streaming app to play his music from the Shire playlist. As with the other people in the ad, only his mouth is actually seen.
Gollum, originally named Sméagol (or Trahald), was at first a Stoor, one of the three early Hobbit-types. The name Gollum was derived from the sound of his gurgling, choking cough.
His life extended far beyond his nature, by the effects of possessing the One Ring. Sméagol was about 589 years old when he died, a remarkable age for a creature that was once a Hobbit, but he had been deformed and twisted in body and mind by the corruption of the Ring. His chief desire was to repossess the Ring that had enslaved him, and he pursued it for many years after Bilbo Baggins found it in Gollum's cave within the Misty Mountains. Inadvertently, Gollum would play a vital role in the ultimate Quest of the Ring.
Déagol and Sméagol fishing
Originally a Stoorish hobbit, born in TA 2430, Sméagol spent the early years of his life living with his extended family under a Matriarch, his grandmother. Around the year 2463, Sméagol became the fourth Bearer of the One Ring, after Sauron, Isildur, and Déagol. Déagol was his cousin, and on Sméagol's birthday, they went fishing in the Gladden Fields. It was there that Déagol found a gold Ring in the water, after being pulled out of their boat by a large fish. Almost immediately, Sméagol fell to the power of the Ring, demanding it as a birthday present. When Déagol refused, Sméagol promptly flew into a rage and fought with Déagol over the Ring, choking him to death and taking the Ring as his own. Sméagol was quickly corrupted further by the Ring and banished by his people; turned by his grandmother out of her hole, he was forced to find a home in a cave in the Misty Mountains in around TA 2470. The Ring's malignant influence twisted his Hobbit body, as well as his mind, and prolonged his life far beyond its natural limits. He called it his "Precious" or his "Birthday Present," the latter as a replacement in his mind for killing Déagol.
Gollum with Bilbo, as imagined by Darrell Sweet
He lived in the Misty Mountains for over four hundred years, living on raw blind fish (which he caught from his small row boat), bats, and, occasionally, small Goblins. Gollum even made a song about raw fish, which is "The rocks and stones! They're like old bones all bare of meat!" that he used as a riddle to Bilbo, and would much later sing to Frodo Baggins in a longer version. He found Hobbit and Elven food repulsive.
During his centuries under the Ring's influence, he developed a sort of dissociative identity disorder: Sméagol, his "good" personality, still vaguely remembered things like friendship and love, while Gollum, his "bad" and prevailing personality, was a slave to the Ring and would kill anyone who tried to take it. Years later, Samwise Gamgee would name the good personality "Slinker" (for his fawning, eager-to-please demeanor), and the bad personality "Stinker". The two personalities often quarreled when he talked to himself (as J.R.R. Tolkien put it, "through not having anyone else to speak to") and had a love/hate relationship, mirroring Gollum's love and hatred for the Ring and for himself.
Gollum living in the Misty Mountains
In July, TA 2941, during the Quest of Erebor, the Hobbit Bilbo Baggins stumbled upon the subterranean lake on which he lived and found Gollum's Ring. Gollum had lost the Ring while squabbling with an imp goblin in the network of caves leading to the lake, though in fact it is more proper to say that the Ring abandoned Gollum, for it was known to have a will of its own. As Gandalf says later, it looks after itself, trying to get back to Sauron. After the infamous Riddle Game, during which Gollum was unaware of his loss, Gollum refused to show Bilbo the promised way out and plotted to murder him. When he went to get his "birthday present," however, he found that it was gone. He suddenly realized the true answer to Bilbo's last riddle—"What have I got in my pocket?" -, breaking into a rage and then begun to chase him in the tunnels. Bilbo inadvertently stumbled across the Ring's power of invisibility as he ran, allowing him to follow Gollum to the back entrance of the cave. There, Bilbo at first thought to kill Gollum, but was overcome with pity, so he jumped over him to escape. As Bilbo ran, Gollum cried out, "Thief! Thief, Baggins! Curse it and crush it! We hates it forever!"; he did not immediately follow Bilbo out of fear of being caught by the goblins, and so lingered in his cave.
Gollum eventually left the Mountains and pursued Bilbo a few years later, but the trail was cold. He made his way south to Mordor where all evil was being drawn at the time, discovering the secret Stairs of Cirith Ungol located near Minas Morgul and surviving an encounter with Shelob. He was captured on his return, taken to the dungeons of Barad-dûr and forced to reveal to Sauron under intense torture what he knew about the Ring. Gollum was then freed, as Sauron had learned all he needed from him and sensed he might draw out the Ring. He was then subsequently caught by Aragorn, then interrogated by Gandalf, who placed him in the care of the Silvan Elves living in Thranduil's kingdom in Mirkwood. Assisted by Orcs he escaped them, and set off looking for the Shire. He passed through Moria, but could not make it out of the Doors of Durin. Seemingly he then just waited there until he got lucky when the Fellowship of the Ring passed through. However, as Frodo was a ring-bearer he might have foreseen the passing of the Ring. Alternatively, some of Saruman's or Sauron's spies may have revealed to him the Fellowship was heading towards Moria.
Gollum's spying eyes in the Mines of Moria
Gollum met and started following the Fellowship of the Ring in Moria, and was spotted and heard by Frodo on several occasions. On January 15, 3019, the Fellowship was divided when Gandalf disappeared while fighting a Balrog (though he later returned). Gollum continued trailing the remaining members. It is unknown how he crossed the broken Bridge of Khazad-dûm, but he came with them to Lórien without their knowing. Gollum followed their boats down Anduin (floating on a log) to Nen Hithoel and pursued Frodo and Sam across the Emyn Muil when they struck out on their own towards Mordor. Gollum followed them, but after a confrontation (in which he bit and nearly strangled Sam for the Ring) Frodo subdued him and threatened to kill him with Sting, the Elvish blade that Gollum had apparently recognized by its former owner - Bilbo. Sam tied an Elven Rope around Gollum's neck for a leash, which inflicted great pain on Gollum. Taking pity, Frodo made Gollum swear to help them. Agreeing to the oath, Gollum swore by the "Precious" itself as the Ring was treacherous and would hold Gollum to his word, so Frodo released him to show them the way to Mordor. The unlikely company, guided by Gollum, made its way to the Black Gate of Mordor.
Along the way, it was revealed that Gollum, having lived in a cave for hundreds of years, feared both the Sun and the Moon, calling them the 'Yellow Face' and the 'White Face' respectively.
Frodo's kindness brought out the "Sméagol" personality, and he made at least some effort to keep his promise. The two had a strange sort of bond from both having been Ring-bearers; in Gollum, Frodo saw his possible future, and so wanted to save him so he could save himself. Apart from Gandalf and Bilbo, Frodo was the only person known to have shown kindness towards Gollum, who was hated instantly by everyone he met, being perceived as filthy, slimy, sneaky and suspect by groups as different as the Orcs of Cirith Ungol and the Rangers of Ithilien.
Gollum while leading Frodo and Sam through Ithilien, in the films
When the Black Gate was reached and found to be well guarded, Gollum convinced them not to go that way, saying that they would be caught and Sauron would regain the Ring. Gollum said he would lead them south, where he knew of another entrance into Mordor, in which Frodo complied, despite Sam's suspicions.
Frodo and Sam were caught by Faramir, and Gollum followed them. When Frodo allowed Faramir to briefly take Gollum prisoner, however, he felt betrayed, allowing the "Gollum" personality to take total control. Faramir found out that the place Gollum was taking them was called Cirith Ungol. He then warned Frodo and Sam of the evil of that place.
Frodo, Sam, and Gollum left Faramir and began crossing the Morgul Vale and proceeded to climb the Stairs of Cirith Ungol, in the border-mountains of the Ephel Dúath (Mountains of Shadow). Gollum visited the great spider Shelob, child of Ungoliant, because he was planning to betray the hobbits by turning them to Shelob for food and then take the Ring for himself. The fact that Gollum managed to forge an alliance with Shelob is also remarkable, as she was otherwise known for devouring and killing everything on sight. When he returned the hobbits were asleep. The sight of Frodo sleeping nearly moved Gollum to repent, as he began to pet Frodo's hair. However, Sam woke up and spoke harshly to Gollum and all hope of redemption was lost. Gollum followed through with his plan and led Frodo and Sam into Torech Ungol.
Just as Frodo warned him, Gollum's betrayal of his oath ultimately led to his undoing, for Frodo and Sam escaped from her lair and also Cirith Ungol. They came against all odds to the fiery volcano Mount Doom. Gollum followed them all the way, seeking a chance to surprise them and take the Ring. When Frodo and Sam had almost reached their destination, he attacked, but failed to get the Ring. Sam, who had hated Gollum on sight, tried to bring himself to kill him, but he relented out of sheer pity and disgust, turning his back on the beaten (but still wily) creature.
Moments later, Frodo was standing on the edge of the Cracks of Doom, but, unable to destroy the Ring, claimed it for himself and put it on. Then Gollum attacked the hobbits again. Gollum knocked out Sam with a rock whilst Frodo was invisible, and then, tracking his footprints, jumped on Frodo's shoulders.  The two fought and Gollum ultimately bit off Frodo's finger with the ring on it.
Gollum dying with the One Ring in the fires of Mount Doom
Here, Bilbo's long-ago kindness in sparing Gollum's life was rewarded, for Gollum then teetered on the edge of the great pit, overjoyed with finally reclaiming his "precious" until losing his balance and falling into the molten lava below while still holding the Ring, causing his own death and, indirectly, the Ring's utter destruction.  Had Bilbo taken Gollum's life early on, the chance of Sauron's regaining the Ring would have greatly increased as he knew where Frodo was as soon as he put it on.
Years after Gollum's death, Frodo would forgive him, as Gandalf had pointed out to him that Gollum was not an evil entity deserving death, but a pitiful being unnaturally and irreversibly bound to the Ring's will, and that Frodo would have almost certainly suffered a similar fate had he kept the Ring.
In the first edition of The Hobbit, Tolkien made no reference to his size, leading several illustrators to portray him as being very large. Tolkien realized the omission, and clarified in later editions that he was of average hobbit size and in The Lord of the Rings, there is a reference to Sam being "little less in height" than he is. Tolkien describes Gollum as either dark, bone-white or sallow (pale yellow): at one point, the Rangers of Ithilien mistake his silhouette (seen from a distance) for a tailless black squirrel. Gorbag and Shagrat describe him as a dark fellow. In a manuscript written to guide illustrators to the appearance of his characters, Tolkien explained this by saying that Gollum had pale skin, but wore dark clothes and was often seen in poor light. The Hobbit states he has pockets, in which he keeps a tooth sharpening rock, goblin teeth, wet shells, and a scrap of bat wing. Despite these details, he is generally depicted wearing a loincloth or naked in illustrations and adaptations.
Gollum fishing in the Forbidden Pool in Ithilien
Gollum was a very good survivor, and his keen eyed and quickness of hand also made him an excellent fisherman. He could spot and catch fish in almost any level of light and water. He fished the waters of the Misty Mountain's underground lake for centuries in almost complete darkness and almost anywhere he had to after leaving his cave in search of the Ring and the "thief" Baggins. He was known to eat almost anything that was living or edible and could stomach anything raw and uncooked. He was also very good at not being seen and was an excellent waterman making use of anything that could float which made it possible for him to follow the Fellowship for so long.
In both the 1981 BBC radio adaptation and in the Peter Jackson movies, Sméagol is pronounced as "SMEE-gol", although the placement of the acute accent suggests that the correct pronunciation is "SMAY-uh-gol", IPA ['sme:.agol] 
. On the other hand, in Tolkien's recordings of The Lord of the Rings he also pronounced it "SMEE-gol" ['smi:gol] or "SMEE-AH-GOL" ['smi:.agol], suggesting that éa should either be pronounced as a hard "e"-sound or as a diphthong ea, and not as two distinct vowels "e" and "a". Tolkien had a habit in his writing to put diacritics in varying places, as can also be seen in the name Eärendil, which also occurs spelt Ëarendil. It should also be noted that "Sméagol" bears strong resemblance to Old English smēaġan, a verb meaning "to ponder". If this was Tolkien's intention, then the acute may have been meant to substitute for the macron. In any case, when trying to pronounce Sméagol, it should be kept in mind that the pronunciation rules given in the Appendices for The Lord of the Rings are for the Elvish languages, and not for (old) English representing Westron and related languages.
Sméagol's "real" Westron name was Trahald, of the meaning "burrowing, worming in or "apt to creep into a hole". In both Westron and Old English, Sméagol's name is related to Smaug's: Smaug's name in "true Dalish" was Trâgu, and the Trah- stem in Trahald and Trâgu is thus a cognate of the Germanic stem present in both Sméagol, and Smaug (with a meaning of squeezing through a hole.)
Gollum in Ralph Bakshi's Adaption
In both Ralph Bakshi's animated film The Lord of the Rings (1978) andBBC's 1981 radio serial, the voice of Gollum was supplied by Peter Woodthorpe.
Gollum canoeing in his cave in the 1977 animated film
In the Rankin/Bass animated versions of both The Hobbit and The Return of the King, Gollum was voiced by comedian Brother Theodore.
In Peter Jackson's first trilogy, Gollum is a CGI creature voiced and acted by actor Andy Serkis, who also provided the voices of some of the Nazgûl and Orcs. Barely glimpsed in The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001), he becomes a central character in The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002) and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003). The ground-breaking CGI character was built around Serkis' voice, movements and expressions, sometimes by using a motion capture suit which recorded his movements and applied them to the digital character, and sometimes by the more laborious process of digitally "painting out" Serkis' image and replacing it with Gollum's, giving the appearance of a small, skeletal, thin and gaunt creature with large, beady eyes and small strands of brown hair. In one such shot in The Two Towers, Serkis' real spittle is seen emerging from Gollum's mouth. Weta Workshop's early stages of visualizing how Gollum could look, before Andy Serkis' face was accommodated, is covered in the last chapter of The Art of The Two Towers by Gary Russell, and in "Part Three: The Journey Continues" in the extended edition appendices. Serkis also wrote Gollum: How We Made Movie Magic in 2003.
In The Return of the King, Serkis himself appears in a flashback scene as Sméagol before his degeneration into Gollum. This scene was originally earmarked for The Two Towers but held back because it was felt that audiences would relate better to the original Sméagol once they were more familiar with who he became. The decision to include this scene meant that Gollum's face had to be redesigned for the second and third movies so that it would more closely resemble Serkis'. His skin color was also redesigned from a dark bluish-gray to a lighter, more pale color (the brief glimpses in The Fellowship of the Ring are of an older portrayal of Gollum).
Unlike the novel, Gollum's fall into the Cracks of Doom is caused when Frodo wrestles him off the precipice. In the novel, Frodo doesn't attempt to attack Gollum; Gollum instead accidentally falls in when he dances with joy at his reclamation of the Ring and then loses his footing.
Serkis reprised his role of Gollum in The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, in which his appearance is much like that of his portrayal in The Lord of the Rings trilogy. He is shown without the scars he received later from his time in Mordor, and with slightly more hair.
Gollum as seen in the films
In Peter Jackson's adaptation of The Two Towers, Faramir describes him as "having an ill-favored look." He was also very thin and only has six teeth (in The Hobbit saying nine); comparing him to Shelob, one of the Orcs describes him as "rather like a spider himself, or perhaps like a starved frog." Gollum's toughness is said to stem from his hobbit roots. Gollum hates light, and avoids it if possible. He is emaciated and gaunt, but possesses a vicious, wiry strength; Aragorn states, "his malice gives him a strength hardly to be imagined." In The Two Towers, Gollum's grip is described as "soft, but horribly strong" as Gollum wrestles with Sam Gamgee. He is also able to climb effortlessly straight down cliffs impossible to climb by Sam and Frodo, and can make long leaps. Additionally, he can run extremely fast, strangely on all fours. Gollum prefers to eat meat raw, and refuses to eat anything Elvish because it apparently burns him to the touch. Also, in Jackson's depiction, Gollum has no apparent affiliation with Sauron.
Uglúk was the leader of the Uruk-hai who were sent from Isengard to pursue the Fellowship of the Ring in TA 3019.
Uglúk and his company ambushed the Fellowship of the Ring at Amon Hen, succeeding in capturing two of the company's four hobbits, Meriadoc Brandybuck and Peregrin Took. In the skirmish, Uglúk killed Boromir with arrows. Under orders from his lord Saruman, Uglúk's company set out towards Isengard.
Uglúk stood by Saruman's demands when a band of Orcs from Moria, led by Grishnákh of Mordor, tried to apprehend Merry and Pippin to take them to Mordor. Uglúk beheaded one of Grishnákh's followers to prevent Saruman's orders from being disobeyed. The hobbits were taken some way further, but near the borders of Fangorn Forest, an Éored of Rohirrim led by Éomer attacked and wiped out the Uruk-hai. Uglúk was slain in single combat by Éomer himself during the fighting.
Uglúk as portrayed in 1978
In The Lord of the Rings (1978), Uglúk is voiced by an unnamed extra. He has the same general appearance as most Orcs in the film, and wields a spiked mace.
He is first seen when Merry and Pippin accidentally stumble into the orc camp at Amon Hen, crashing into his back. While trying to corral them, Merry stabs and injures one of his arms; another Orc tries attacking them with an axe, but Uglúk fatally strikes him with his mace because of orders to take the hobbits alive.
After Boromir is killed and the hobbits are captured, Uglúk attempts to lead his band to Isengard on foot. He kicks Pippin for tripping and then forces the hobbits to drink something. Like in the book, he has an acrimonious relationship with Mordor Orc Grishnákh, knocking him down at one point to take his drink and give it to the hobbits.
He is not seen again after the Rohirrim attack on his group, but he was presumably killed along with the rest of the Orcs.
In Peter Jackson's movie adaptation of The Two Towers, Uglúk is played by Nathaniel Lees. In the preceding film, the initial leader of the Uruk-hai was Lurtz, who killed Boromir and was slain by Aragorn at Amon Hen. Uglúk took command of the troop after his death, proving himself disciplined by standing by the instructions given by Saruman from the "master".
On their way to Isengard, the Uruk-hai are intercepted by a group of Mordor Orcs led by Grishnákh, who demands they hand the Hobbits over, spurring an argument. When Mauhúr reports the smell of "man-flesh", Uglúk realizes that they are being pursued by Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli, and he and Grishnákh forestall their arguing and begin a relentless sprint toward Isengard. After a day of haste, the Mordor Orcs tire and demand a break, and Uglúk orders that the troop rests by Fangorn Forest. There, tensions between the two groups resume. When Snaga's hunger proves a threat to the captive Merry and Pippin, Uglúk reminds him of their importance (and that they "are not for eating"), but Snaga tries to lay hands on them anyway; Uglúk beheads him in response, then proceeds to cannibalize his corpse with the other Uruks.
Distracted by their feast, the troop is suddenly ambushed by the Éomer and the Rohirrim whom Wormtongue had earlier banished, and all Orcs including Uglúk are slain. Any duel with Éomer, however, was excluded from the films.
This category is for Characters in The Hobbit.
All items (34)
Beorn was a Northman, skin-changer, and chieftain of the Beornings who lived near the River Anduin between Mirkwood and the Misty Mountains. His kin lived in that region during the last centuries of the Third Age, guarding the Ford of Carrock from the Goblins and Wargs. He was the father of Grimbeorn the Old.
Beorn was a warrior with great strength who could turn into a great black bear. In human form he was a tall, black-haired man with huge arms and a great beard. Beorn kept many animals at his residence, such as horses, dogs and sheep. His animals were all extremely intelligent; his dogs, for instance, could walk on their hind legs while carrying things with their forelegs, set the table, and able to speak. Beorn's horses could also understand what their master said. Beorn was also capable of speaking in the tongue of beasts, as he could communicate with bears. When he spoke to his dogs, his words sounded like "barks twisted into some form of speech".
Beorn as portrayed by the Brothers Hildebrandt
In the year TA 2941, Beorn granted shelter to Thorin and Company, which included Gandalf and the hobbit Bilbo Baggins. Beorn, though not over fond of Dwarves, provided the company with food, supplies, and guidance after being humored by Gandalf's telling of the company's story. The company then left Beorn to travel through Mirkwood, though the Beorning warned them not to drink from the Enchanted stream within the forest.
Some months later, word came to Beorn of impending trouble at the Lonely Mountain, and he arrived in time to take part in the Battle of Five Armies, where he bore Thorin from the battlefield after the Dwarf was mortally wounded. Beorn later accompanied Gandalf and Bilbo on their return journey as far as his home, where he allowed the two to stay over the winter.
In the years following the Battle of Five Armies, Beorn became a great chieftain among the folk of the Vales of Anduin and his followers became known as the Beornings. At some point he became the father of Grimbeorn, later known as Grimbeorn the Old. Before the War of the Ring, Beorn passed away, and his son Grimbeorn took over his duties as chieftain.
Beorn as seen in The Hobbit films, acted by Mikael Persbrandt
The name Beorn originates from an Old English term that means "warrior". It is a homophone of Old Norse bjǫrn which means "bear".
Despite being incredibly powerful, Beorn respected all life forms, with the exceptions of Goblins and Wargs, due to their malevolent and destructive tendencies. He had a magic-like effect on his animals, who seem more intelligent and strong than other animals. He kept bee pastures and spent his nights patrolling the woods and mountains in the form of a bear.  He was fairly decent, allowing Thorin and Company to stay at his home for a short while, offering sanctuary from the Goblins. Beorn was also vengeful; when Thorin was fatally wounded in battle Beorn stormed the goblin ranks, rescues Thorin and then returns, destroying the goblins and killing Bolg himself.
Beorn portrayed in his human form
Beorn is portrayed by Mikael Persbrandt in the films The Desolation of Smaug and The Battle of the Five Armies. His appearance in the films is quite different than his description in the book and portrayals in other media. In the films, he has greyish-brown hair, a forked beard, shackles on his left arm, and a mane of hair growing as a ridge down the length of his back. Beorn mentioned his fellow Skin-changers, who once lived in the mountains before Azog the Defiler came down from the north and killed or enslaved many of his people for sport. Beorn escaped the terrible fate of his kin (explaining the shackles on his arm), and claims that he is the last of his kind. He gives them horses to reach Mirkwood and provides escort to protect them from roaming Orcs. Beorn appears to be aware of the dark presence in Dol Guldur as he knows of an alliance between the Orcs of Moria and the Necromancer, whom he calls the Sorcerer, in Dol Guldur. Packs of Orcs have been seen gathering in the fortress with their numbers increasing every day. Beorn also knows that the Necromancer is not what he seems to be and that dark and foul things are drawn to his power, not to mention Azog's allegiance to him. He also heard word spread of the dead rising and walking near the High Fells of Rhudaur. He asked Gandalf if there actually were tombs in those mountains and Gandalf confirms the tombs as Beorn remembered a time when a great evil ruled the lands and had the power to raise the dead. If that evil had returned, he wished to know from Gandalf.
Beorn watches Azog's forces.
In The Battle of the Five Armies, he makes a brief cameo during the battle, shifting from man to bear form as he arrives with the Great Eagles, attacking several goblins and wargs. He is later seen at the funeral for Thorin, Fíli and Kíli.
Beorn's personality is notably different from what it is in the book. Instead of being boisterous and impatient, Beorn is depicted as soft-spoken and collected. Beorn is also said to be in little control of himself in the The Desolation of Smaug, but in the book, he can be tame and gentle as a bear, even following the Dwarves to ensure the return of his ponies when the Dwarves leave his house to go to Mirkwood.
Beorn in The Lord of the Rings Online
In The Lord of the Rings Online, Beorn has a brief cameo in a flashback sequence, saving a child of the Woodmen from Gollum "the child-snatcher".
Bard, known also as Bard the Bowman and Bard I, was a Man of Lake-town, the slayer of the dragon Smaug, and founder and first king of the renewed kingdom of Dale. He was succeeded as King of Dale by his son, Bain.
Bard the Bowman
Bard was descended from Lord Girion of Dale, whose wife and child had escaped to Lake-town when Smaug ruined Dale and took the Lonely Mountain in TA 2770.
In TA 2941, when Smaug emerged from the Lonely Mountain and attacked Lake-town, Bard, as captain of a company of town archers, was encouraging the archers and urging the town Master to order them to fight to the last arrow. Bard himself fired many arrows with his great yew bow. He was down to his last arrow when a thrush came and perched over his shoulder. Because Bard was of the race of Dale, he was able to understand the thrush's words. The bird told him of the weak spot in Smaug's armor that Bilbo Baggins had discovered. Bard fired his Black Arrow and struck the hollow by Smaug's left breast and the dragon fell from the sky, landing on Lake-town and destroying it.
Bard escaped into the lake and swam ashore. The people wanted him to be their King, but he said he would continue to serve the Master of Lake-town for the time being. Bard took charge of organizing shelter and aid for the refugees and sent messages to the Elvenking of Mirkwood asking for help. Then, Bard and the Elvenking led their forces to the Lonely Mountain, seeking a share of the treasure.
When they arrived at the Lonely Mountain, they were surprised to find Thorin Oakenshield and his company of Dwarves still alive. Bard sought reparations from Thorin on the grounds that it was he who had slain Smaug, that part of the Dragon’s treasure had once belonged to Dale, and that the people of Lake-town were suffering and needed aid. Thorin said that the destruction of Lake-town was not his responsibility and he refused to parley with armies camped outside the mountain. Bard sent a messenger several hours later asking for one-twelfth of the treasure, but again Thorin refused.
Bilbo Baggins thought that Bard's claims were reasonable, so one night he went secretly to the camp of the Lake-men and Elves. The Hobbit had found the Arkenstone - the treasure that Thorin most desired - and he offered it to Bard and Thranduil to use to negotiate. He also told them that an army of 500 Dwarves led by Dáin Ironfoot was coming from the Iron Hills.
The next day, Bard asked Thorin for a portion of the treasure in exchange for the Arkenstone. Thorin was enraged, but he reluctantly agreed to give up Bilbo's one-fourteenth share. Dáin's army arrived the next day, and Bard tried to prevent them from entering the Lonely Mountain until the exchange for the Arkenstone had been made. A battle seemed imminent, but then Gandalf told them that an army of goblins and Wargs were approaching. Bard, Thranduil, and Dáin took council together and they joined forces to fight their common enemy in the Battle of Five Armies. During the battle, Thorin emerged from the mountain and rallied Dwarves, Elves, and Men to the attack, but he was mortally wounded. Bard laid the Arkenstone upon Thorin's breast when he was buried under the mountain, and Dáin agreed to pay the one-fourteenth share of the treasure as promised. Bard gave the emeralds of Girion to Thranduil in gratitude for his assistance. Bard also contributed gold for the rebuilding of Lake-town, and although the Master of Lake-town absconded with much of it, Lake-town was rebuilt and its people became prosperous.
Bard the Bowman as portrayed by Luke Evans in The Hobbit films
Bard went to his ancestral home of Dale at the foot of the Lonely Mountain. He rebuilt the ruined town and in TA 2944, he became King of Dale. Bard maintained good relations with the Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain and trade flowed freely up and down the River Running. People came to settle in Dale from miles around and the land that had been withered by Smaug became bountiful once more.
Bard died in TA 2977. His son Bain succeeded him as King of Dale.
Along with Bard, many characters of importance were omitted from the 1966 animated film of The Hobbit.
Bard the Bowman (1977)
In the 1977 film The Hobbit, Bard was voiced by John Stephenson.
Bard and his children, Bain, Sigrid, and Tilda
Bard is portrayed by the Welsh actor Luke Evans in The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug and The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies. He bears a striking resemblance to Legolas' actor Orlando Bloom. In the film he is referred to as "Bard the Bargeman" rather than captain of the town archers.
In addition to his son Bain, the film version of Bard also has two daughters, Sigrid and Tilda, played in The Desolation of Smaug by James Nesbitt's daughters, Peggy and Mary, respectively.
In the book, Bard first appears when, as captain of a company of town archers, is urging the town Master to order a fight to the last arrow, and was himself shooting arrows at the attacking dragon. In The Hobbit films, however, the character takes on a much greater role.
In The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, Bard confronts the Dwarves upon finding them on the river bank. Balin persuades Bard to smuggle them into Lake-town, promising to pay him double his usual barge fare. Bard is hesitant at first, not wanting Thranduil to be angry at Lake-town, but eventually smuggles the Company into the town and leads them to his house where they stay for the night. When Bard realizes that Thorin is actually Thorin Oakenshield of the line of Durin, he goes out to a shop to find a tapestry of the House of Durinn before reciting a prophecy of the Mountain King's return. He returns to his house to find that the Dwarves have left to raid the armoury and goes to find them. By the time he does, the Dwarves have been caught and Thorin reveals his identity to the Master of Lake-town. Bard vocalizes his opposition to letting the Dwarves enter the Lonely Mountain, fearing that they will awaken Smaug, who will destroy Lake-town in retaliation, but by appealing to their hopes for the return of prosperity, Thorin is able to persuade the Master and the townspeople to support him.
Bard, offering to ransom the Arkenstone to Thorin
Bard warns the people of Lake-town
Kíli becomes gravely ill from a poisoned arrow which had hit him previously during an Orc attack, and is left behind as Thorin and the others head to the Lonely Mountain. Fíli, Bofur, and Óin stay to tend him, taking refuge in Bard's home. Óin asks Bard if there is any Kingsfoil, and Bard says it's a weed they use to feed the pigs, so Bofur sets off to get some. Then, Bolg and his Orc troops, searching for Thorin, attack the Dwarves and Bard's family. Fortunately, Legolas and Tauriel arrive in time to rescue them. When Smaug is finally awakened, Bard takes out the Black Arrow and prepares to use it, but as he and Bain attempt to get to the Dwarvish wind lance to mount the Black Arrow, the town guard began searching for Bard at the orders of the Master. Passing Bain the Black Arrow and instructing him to hide it, Bard attempts to lead the guards away and is soon captured and imprisoned as Smaug flies towards Lake-town.
In The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, Bard escapes prison by wrapping a rope around the Master of Lake-town's neck, which as his boat goes forward the window to the prison breaks. Bard then steals a quiver of arrows and a longbow, climbs to the top of a large tower and proceeds to shoot Smaug, who is currently burning Lake-town. Bard eventually runs out of arrows and his son, Bain comes up with the Black Arrow. Bard's bow has now been broken, so he ties the bow string to the posts on the tower and rests the Black Arrow on Bain's shoulder. Bard nocks the arrow, pulls it back and fires; the arrow hitting Smaug right where his scale is missing. Smaug's corpse then falls in the lake and on the Master's boat, killing him, Braga, and two other guards.
Bard with the Mirkwood army
Bard then leads the surviving people of Lake-town to Dale, not knowing that the Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain have already taken control of the Lonely Mountain. The refugees from Lake-town stay in Dale for the night. The next morning Thranduil and the Elves of Mirkwood arrive and give the people of Lake-Town food. Bard and Thranduil form an alliance to take back their rightful treasure in Erebor. Thranduil explains to Bard that he came here to claim something of his, white gems. Bard explains to Thranduil that he want to speak to Thorin first, possibly to prevent conflict. Bard first speaks with Thorin, but returns with the news that Thorin will give them nothing. Thranduil thinks little of it and declares war on the Dwarves.
That night Bilbo sneaks out of the mountain for a meeting with Bard and Thranduil, and much to Bilbo's surprise Gandalf is present. He gives them the Arkenstone in hope it will make peace with the Dwarves. The next morning the Elves and Men march up to the Lonely Mountain where Bard offers Thorin the Arkenstone. Thorin refuses and almost kills Bilbo after he finds out from Bilbo what happened. However, just before Thorin can harm Bilbo Gandalf then arrives. Gandalf demands Thorin not to harm his "burglar" and demands Thorin to return Bilbo to him at once. Afterward Bard asks, "Are we resolved? The return of the Arkenstone for what was promised?" Thorin gives Bard one glance then looks to the Northwest seeing no sign of the raven that was sent to Dáin Ironfoot. Bard then says "Give us your answer. Will you have peace, or war?" Then the raven returns and marching is heard, Dáin Ironfoot and the army of Dwarves march down proudly to Thorin's aid, Thorin replies to Bard's question, "I will have war." When the Elves go to attack the Dwarves from the Iron Hills, Dáin Ironfoot arrives on the scene Gandalf tries to reason with Dain that Orcs are coming and he should stand down but Dáin refuses. After Dáin and King Thranduril have a bitter exchange of words, Dáin declares war.
King Thranduil and Bard as seen in The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies.
However, before the Dwarves and Elves can even attack each other, the Orcs being led by Azog arrive, and the Battle of Five Armies begins. Gandalf realizing Azog's plan, knows the Lake-town, Mirkwood, and Iron Hills armies can't fight on two fronts. Bard leads his Men back to the city of Dale to defend the city for the remainder of the battle.
Bilbo talking with Bard in Lake-town
A Dwarf Lord known for his wise counsel and willingness to listen, he was one of Thorin's closest friends and advisers. Balin was distantly related to him, and a descendant of the noble House of Durin.
He later went to re-establish the Dwarf presence in Moria, but within five years it was overcome once more by Orcs, and he was killed there along with the rest of his companions.
Balin was likely born in the Lonely Mountain before the coming of the dragon Smaug. He had a younger brother named Dwalin, and was amongst those driven from their homes when Smaug attacked the Lonely Mountain. Afterwards, he may have lived in Dunland as a refugee, before fighting in the War of the Dwarves and Orcs which culminated in the Battle of Azanulbizar. Many years later, in approximately TA 2841, he accompanied Thráin II, the father of Thorin, when he attempted to go back to the Lonely Mountain himself, but Thráin was captured and lost.
Balin was part of the company assembled by Thorin Oakenshield in TA 2941 that journeyed to the Lonely Mountain with Bilbo Baggins and Gandalf to defeat Smaug, and to retake the kingdom of Erebor. He was the second Dwarf to arrive at Bilbo's home, where, like his brother Dwalin, he played a viol as big as himself. Following the meeting's conclusion and the company's initial departure to the Green Dragon Inn, Balin spotted Bilbo hurrying to reach them before they set out.
Balin visits Bilbo in The Hobbit films
Balin, along with his companions, underwent the journey through the Trollshaws and Lone-lands to Rivendell, including the encounter with the trolls Tom, Bert, and William. The company rested in Rivendell for some time, and after setting out to cross the Misty Mountains, were captured by Orcs on the High Pass, after taking refuge from a thunderstorm. With Gandalf's help, the Dwarves escaped, and subsequently Balin was posted as a lookout when Bilbo returned, having been separated from the company during their flight. Due to Bilbo's usage of the One Ring, which he had discovered in the Orc tunnels, the Hobbit crept by Balin unnoticed, puzzling the Dwarf a great deal. Soon afterwards, the company was beset by Wargs, which forced them to climb a number of pine trees until their rescue by the Great Eagles.
The Eagles took them to their eyrie, and then to the Carrock, from whence the company traveled to the house of Beorn. Gandalf decided to introduce the Dwarves by pairs so as not to overwhelm Beorn, and Balin and Dwalin were chosen to come first. Having been welcomed by the skin-changer and given rest and provisions, the company set out to cross the forest of Mirkwood. Despite having been warned to the contrary, the Dwarves eventually left the path after running low on supplies, and were soon waylaid by great spiders, which intended to eat them. Bilbo used the Ring to escape notice, and returned to free them. Balin afterwards led the company in escaping from and fighting off the spiders, though the Dwarves were captured by Wood-elves, and taken to the hall of the Elvenking, Thranduil. It was here that Balin spoke for his companions, arguing for their release. Thranduil refused, and imprisoned the Dwarves, until Bilbo again rescued the company.
The Dwarves came to Lake-town, and then to the Lonely Mountain. After opening the Side-door to the mountain, Balin was the only member of the company willing to go with Bilbo some way inside. The hobbit, after unintentionally disturbing the dragon Smaug, returned to the Dwarves, but Smaug left his lair and attempted to kill the Dwarves before turning to Lake-town, with the intent to destroy it. The dragon was there slain by Bard, and the Dwarves took possession of the mountain. Thorin and Balin, not long after, came upon the raven Roäc, who brought word of the dragon's demise.
Balin fought in and survived the subsequent Battle of Five Armies, which was fought against Orcs led by Bolg, after tensions with the Lake-men and Wood-elves had run high, due to a disagreement about the division of Smaug's treasure. He took up residence at the Lonely Mountain afterwards with the surviving members of the company.
Seven years after the Quest for Erebor, Balin accompanied Gandalf to visit Bilbo in the Shire in TA 2949, since the two had become good friends during their travels. He and Gandalf gave Bilbo the news of current happenings in Middle-earth.
Sometime afterward in the coming years before his expedition in TA 2989, Balin would visit Bilbo at least one more time. During this visit to the Shire, Balin met Bilbo's newly adopted heir of Bag End, Frodo, and the young Hobbit would come to learn of some of Balin and his Uncle's travels to the lonely mountain.
Balin at his death bed
In TA 2989, Balin led an expedition in an attempt to reclaim the ancient Dwarf kingdom of Moria, hoping to re-establish Dwarven rule and to reclaim the last of the Seven Rings of the Dwarves. Though his king did give his consent, Balin and company went anyway. Among his numbers were fellow members of Thorin's company Óin and Ori. While in Moria, he discovered Durin's Axe and a Mithril helm (possibly the crown of Durin l) and claimed them as his own. After the discovery of these items Balin, being a descendant of the line of Durin, claimed rulership over the Dwarven realm, taking the title Lord of Moria. Ultimately, the search for the ring, which conferred great wealth and a curse of greed on its owner, was in vain, as it had been taken from Thráin II by Sauron.
After ruling as Moria's Lord for about five years, Balin was slain by Orcs on November 10 TA 2994, after going to look upon the Mirromere alone. His body was recovered after a battle, and entombed in the Chamber of Mazarbul. The attempt to retake Moria ultimately failed afterward, as the rest of his kin we're eventually trapped and killed. Ironically he died in the same place and the same way as his father had been slain 195 years before in TA 2799.
Balin's tomb at the time of the Fellowship's arrival
Some twenty-five years later in TA 3019, the Fellowship of the Ring passed through Moria and discovered Balin's tomb, and the truth of what happened to his expedition, which had not previously been known, in the Book of Mazarbul. The knowledge of this brought much grief to Balin's cousin Gimli, who was a member of the fellowship.
Balin was a discerning character, being described as the company's "look-out man": He spotted Bilbo approaching the Green Dragon Inn at Bywater; he spotted the trolls' fire, and; he was the first to spot the Elves in Mirkwood. He noted that not even a mouse had ever passed him on watch, and wondered why he did not notice Bilbo (hidden by wearing the magic ring) when he was lookout for the company after escaping the Orcs in the Misty Mountains. Among the Dwarves of the company, Balin was the second-eldest dwarf, and loosely held the position of deputy leader.
Balin gained respect for Bilbo's abilities, and was the only dwarf who volunteered to accompany Bilbo down the secret passage to Smaug's chamber. Of all the Dwarves in the quest, Balin was the only one known to have visited Bilbo at Bag End after their quest for the Lonely Mountain.
In early drafts of The Lord of the Rings in the 1940s, Balin had a son called Burin, who accompanied Bilbo Baggins from Bag End along with his fellow dwarves Anar, Hannar, Lofar and Nar.
Balin (1977)
In the 1977 animated version of The Hobbit, he was voiced by Don Messick. He is one of the few Dwarves to have a major role in the film.
In Peter Jackson's The Hobbit film trilogy, he was portrayed by Scottish actor Ken Stott. The studio released the following statement regarding Balin in the films:
A descendant of nobility and a Dwarf Lord in his own right, Balin is one of the oldest members of The Company of Dwarves. Wise and gentle by nature, he has been forced to live a life fraught with war and the ongoing struggle for survival. Related to Thorin Oakenshield, Balin is one of his closest, most trusted advisers – but deep in his heart, this wisest and most loyal of Dwarves harbors troubling doubts about the wisdom of the Quest for the Lonely Mountain.
In The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, Balin shows his wisdom when he tells Fíli and Kíli and Bilbo about Thorin’s dislike for Orcs.
In The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, Balin persuades Bard the Bowman to take them safely to Lake-town in return for a huge amount of money (double Bard's usual barge fare), an event that did not occur in the book.
In The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, Balin fights in and survives the battle, during which he helps to man a dwarven war chariot and transport Dwalin, Fíli, and Kíli to Ravenhill. He later personally bids Bilbo farewell at his leaving.
Balin fights with a weapon with similarities to a sword and a mace, which Ken Stott, asked for himself. While in the book, Balin is about twenty years younger than Thorin, in Peter Jackson's three-part adaptation, Balin is ranked as the oldest member of the company.
Young Balin in The Lord of the Rings Online
In The Lord of the Rings Online Young Balin makes a cameo appearance in a flashback sequence depicting the Battle of Azanulbizar. Older Balin makes another silent cameo during the Company's departure for the Quest of Erebor. In the present day, the fate of Balin's expedition in Moria is uncovered by the sons of Bifur and Bofur.
Balin is portrayed to be the wiser, more social and sceptical individual in Thorin and Company. He is kind, sly and brave, an excellent fighter. Thorin, at one point, notes Balin's skill as a fighter. He develops an essentially strong relationship with the other Dwarves he travels with and is willing to fight alongside them for any cause. He is sympathetic, sometimes cynical, towards Bilbo Baggins, remarking that the latter wasn't fit for the job they had set out to do. He got on brilliantly with Thorin, and seemed to share something of a grandfatherly view of the latter.
Balin's (Cinematic trilogy) Weapon
Lonely Mountain
Bifur (cousin)
shorter than Dwalin
Bofur was a Dwarf of the late-Third Age. He is best known as a companion of Bilbo Baggins, Thorin Oakenshield, and Gandalf on the quest to reclaim the Lonely Mountain from the dragon Smaug, along with his brother Bombur and cousin Bifur.
Bofur was not related to the royal House of Durin but was descended from the Dwarves of Khazad-dûm.
While answering Thorin Oakenshield's quest to Erebor, Bofur went to the meeting at Bag End with his brother Bombur and cousin Bifur. He accompanied Thorin, Gandalf, Bilbo Baggins, and rest of Thorin's Company across Wilderland to the Lonely Mountain in order to reclaim the Dwarves' treasure from the dragon Smaug. Following the dragon's demise, Bofur participated in and survived the Battle of Five Armies, receiving his fourteenth share of the treasure as agreed upon.
Little is told of his life after the Battle of Five Armies. Glóin reported to Frodo Baggins just before the Council of Elrond that Bofur was alive and prospering in Erebor. He may have lived into the early Fourth Age, but his time of death is untold.
Bofur (1977)
Bofur was voiced by Jack DeLeon in the Rankin/Bass adaptation of The Hobbit and is seen next to his cousin Bifur.
Bofur as portrayed by James Nesbitt
In The Hobbit trilogy directed by Peter Jackson, Bofur is played by James Nesbitt. Bofur has an expanded role in the film compared to the book, serving as lookout when the company rests in the Misty Mountains and is captured by the Goblins. He gives Bilbo words of encouragement just before their capture when the latter is about to leave to return to Rivendell, wishing him good luck. However, they are captured before Bilbo can leave. At Bag End he plays a flute, rather than a clarinet as stated in the book. He carries a mattock in Peter Jackson's films.
In the films' continuity, Bofur's family were miners, and he and his cousin Bifur also dabbled in toy-making, crafting the wonderful mechanical toys that were so famous in Dale. Life in the Blue Mountains was difficult, but Bofur remains cheerfully optimistic. Bofur maintains a close but feisty relationship with his brother Bombur whom he often teases but always looks after.
The studio released the following information about Bofur before the release of The Hobbit trilogy:
"Endearing and likable, Bofur has a disastrous tendency to state the obvious and blurt out things without thinking. With a love of music and a fine singing voice, Bofur delights in good food and good company and is unfailingly optimistic. Though not especially brave, he will do his best to help those in need, especially those he counts as friends. Along with his brother Bombur and his cousin Bifur, Bofur joined the Quest for the Lonely Mountain partly to seek his fortune – and partly because he was told the beer was free."
In The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, Bofur is present at Bag End and participates in the unexpected party. Bofur later explains to Bilbo about Smaug, for which Bilbo faints afterwards, prompting Gandalf to sarcastically say "thank you, Bofur". After the company leaves Bag End, and Bilbo realizes he has forgotten his handkerchief, Bofur tosses him a wet rag, causing many of the other Dwarves to laugh. Once the company have reached Rivendell, Bofur tosses his brother Bombur a sausage, causing the bench he is sitting on to break, causing all the Dwarves to break out in laughter. When Bilbo is going to leave the company, Bofur attempts to convince him not to, however, realizing that Bilbo is truly homesick, he wishes him the best of luck. however, Bofur points out to Bilbo that Sting is glowing. Bofur can later be seen fighting Orcs, and later fighting Orcs and Wargs along with the rest of the company. He eventually escapes Azog's forces in the pine forest due to the intervention of the Great Eagles.
In The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, due to excessive partying the night before, Bofur oversleeps and is left behind in Lake-town when Thorin and Company leave for the Lonely Mountain, except for Fíli and Kíli and Óin, who have stayed behind as well because Kíli has become gravely ill from a poisoned Orc arrow. In the evening, Kíli's wound grows worse and the Dwarves take refuge in Bard's home. Óin asks Bard if there is any Kingsfoil, which he knows to have healing properties. Bard says it's a weed they use to feed the pigs, so Bofur sets off to get some. Meanwhile, Bolg and a group of Orcs arrive in Lake-town, searching for Thorin. Unintentionally, Bofur leads them to Bard's home and the Orcs attack. Legolas and Tauriel arrive just in time to kill the Orcs. When Bofur returns with the Kingsfoil, Tauriel uses it to tend to Kíli's wounds as Fíli, Óin and Bofur watch.
In The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, the four Dwarves are present when Smaug attacks Lake-town, after which they travel by boat to the Lonely Mountain, to re-join the rest of the company. Bofur later fights in and survives the Battle of Five Armies along with many of his kinsmen. He is last present with the rest of the company (sans the deceased Thorin, Fíli and Kíli) when Bilbo bids them farewell and heads back to the Shire with Gandalf.
Bofur is an ally card in The Lord of the Rings Trading Card Game, by Fantasy Flight games. He belongs to the Spirit sphere and his effect allows the player to use him straight from their hand to commit to a quest.
Dwalin was one of the Dwarves who traveled with Bilbo and Gandalf as a member of Thorin and Company on the quest to regain the Lonely Mountain from the Dragon Smaug. He was the brother of Balin and the youngest son of Fundin.
Born in TA 2772, two years after the dragon Smaug had desolated Erebor, Dwalin was the son of Fundin and younger brother of Balin. After fighting in the Battle of Azanulbizar at the age of 27, Dwalin accompanied Thráin II and Thorin Oakenshield to settle peacefully in the northern Ered Luin.
Later in TA 2841, Dwalin, along with his brother Balin, and a few others accompanied Thráin when he left the Ered Luin on a Quest to reclaim Erebor. The small party was dogged by the emissaries of Sauron. In TA 2845, Thráin was captured one night when he and his companions sheltered under the eaves of Mirkwood from a black rain. After a fruitless search for their king, the Dwarves gave up and returned to Thorin to inform him the news.
Dwalin was the first Dwarf to arrive, alone, at Bag End when the unexpected party planned by Thorin and Gandalf began at Bilbo Baggins' hobbit hole. Wearing a dark-green hood and a golden belt, he walked into Bilbo's home as if expected, which greatly surprised Bilbo. Soon Balin arrived, and he and Dwalin sat talking while Bilbo kept answering the door for the arrival of more and more Dwarves. Later, when Bilbo griped aloud in his kitchen about the lack of help in setting out refreshments, Dwalin and Balin were the first (followed by Fíli and Kíli) to lend a hand. Later still, when the Dwarves filled Bag End with music, Dwalin played on a viol as big as himself. Dwalin lent a green hood and cloak to Bilbo when they set out on their journey.
Graham McTavish as Dwalin in The Hobbit films
After Thorin's Company reclaimed the mountain from Smaug, Dwalin fought alongside his companions in the Battle of Five Armies. He survived the battle, and later received his fourteenth share of Smaug's hoard. He chose to live afterwards in Erebor under the rule of Dáin II Ironfoot, Thorin's cousin and now King under the Mountain.
Dwalin appears not to have joined his brother Balin's expedition to resettle Moria in TA 2989, meaning he was not among those who lost their lives there when the colony was overrun by Orcs five years later. He was one of seven of the ten Dwarves of Thorin's company who were still living in Erebor when Frodo came to Rivendell in TA 3018, as reported by Glóin. After the War of the Ring was over, resulting in the defeat of Sauron and the destruction of the One Ring, Dwalin lived there throughout his life in the Fourth Age in Middle-earth and passed away in FO 91 at the great age of 340, considered later than any other known date of death for a member of Thorin and Company.
Dwalin (1977)
In the 1977 Rankin/Bass animated version of The Hobbit, Dwalin was voiced by Jack DeLeon, and though only having one line when the Back-door of Lonely Mountain saying to Thorin "Well what know?" and it is unknown whether he survived the Battle of Five Armis.
In Peter Jackson's The Hobbit film trilogy (2012 - 2014), he was portrayed by Scottish actor Graham McTavish. The studio released the following statement regarding Dwalin in the trilogy:
Dwalin in the pantry at Bag End
Renowned as a great warrior, Dwalin speaks his mind plainly and is not one to suffer fools lightly. Fiercely loyal, he was Thorin Oakenshield's staunchest supporter with an unshakeable belief in his friend's leadership. A powerful and bruising fighter, Dwalin has a natural tendency to distrust anyone who is not a Dwarf and is particularly suspicious of Elves. Proud, brave and one of the tallest of the Dwarves, Dwalin will bow to none but those who have earned his respect.
A younger Dwalin (with a mohawk) is shown in The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey fighting alongside Thorin at the Battle of Azanulbizar, dueling a Gundabad captain.
During the events of The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, Dwalin's weapons are stripped from him after being captured by the Wood-elves of Mirkwood. Following the company's escape and their encounter with Bard the Bowman, Dwalin openly voices his mistrust of Bard; suggesting that they throw him overboard and take his boat by force. He later equips himself with a large two-handed mace from Lake-town's armory for the raid on the Lonely Mountain.
In The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, Dwalin, along with the other dwarves, follow Thorin as they barricade themselves inside Erebor. After Dain's army arrives and begins to fight Azog's huge Orc army, Thorin refuses to aid his cousin. Dwalin tries to persuade Thorin to aid them, saying that Thorin is less of a man than he has even been. Dwalin then follows Thorin, Fili, and Kili to Ravenhill to fight Azog. He witnesses Fili's death, and later comes to Bilbo's aid and fights off the Orcs. Dwalin then bows to Thorin's body after the battle. He is last seen with the rest of the company saying farewell to Bilbo.
Each of The Hobbit films' actors had a voice in the nature and design of their own weaponry. Graham McTavish, who plays Dwalin, named the Dwarf's twin battle axes Grasper and Keeper; when first shooting tests for Dwalin, McTavish said, "This one grasps your soul, this one keeps it" in regard to the axes.
In The Lord of the Rings Online, after Thorin's death, Gormr Doursmith took over Thorin's Halls' leadership but with his consequent defeat at the hands of Dwalin, Dwalin became Lord of the Longbeards in the Blue Mountains and Steward of Thorin's Halls. Before the War of the Ring, he led an expedition to Dourhands' territory, south of the city. Some members of his party fell ill to a strange disease, but were cured later by a fellow Longbeard who had discovered a cure at Dwalin's request. Eventually he discovered the source and stopped it, however he failed to prevent the resurrection of Skorgrim, the ancient King of the Dourhands. Under his leadership, the Longbeards recovered the region from the Dourhands. Dwalin says that he tries to rule the Halls as well as Thorin would in his tribute. He claims he hasn't seen his brother Balin for a while and also that he misses the Lonely Mountain.
In LEGO The Hobbit: The Video Game, Dwalin can use his hammer to push large Legos.
J.R.R. Tolkien borrowed the name from Dvalinn, a Dwarf from Norse mythology.
Contrary to belief among fans, nothing about Dwalin's life after the Quest of Erebor, save his date of death and the fact he continued to reside in the Lonely Mountain, is cited in any of Tolkien's works. Whether or not he had children is merely speculation, as none are listed for him in Gimli's genealogy.
King under the Mountain (briefly)
Thorin II "Oakenshield", eventually called King under the Mountain or Mountain King, was the son of Thráin II, the older brother of Frerin and Dís, the grandson of King Thrór and the uncle of Fíli and Kíli. Thorin was best known for his deeds as leader of a company that infiltrated the lost Kingdom under the Mountain to take it back from Smaug and for leading an alliance of Men, Dwarves, and Elves in the Battle of Five Armies.
Thorin as a Prince.
Thorin II was born in TA 2746 to Dwarf prince Thráin II in the city of the Lonely Mountain. Early in his youth, he and the other Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain were forced to flee by the dragon Smaug in TA 2770. While in exile, he quickly grew to become a capable warrior. This was demonstrated when he participated in the Battle of Azanulbizar in TA 2799. He fought with one of the Dwarven armies beneath the East-gate of Moria. At some point in the fighting, his shield broke, and using an oaken tree branch found on the ground as a shield, he gained the epithet "Oakenshield," which would remain with him even in death.
Thorin became King-in-Exile of Durin's Folk in TA 2850 after his father went missing, and died in the dungeons of Dol Guldur.
Thorin at the Battle of Azanulbizar
In TA 2941, Gandalf the Grey found Thorin in The Prancing Pony at Bree and set in motion a scheme to retake the mountain. He gave Thorin a map and key that he had received from Thráin in Dol Guldur before he died. Thorin then took a contingent of twelve Dwarves to visit Bilbo Baggins in order to hire him as a burglar for their mission. Thorin intended to infiltrate the Lonely Mountain and retake the treasure from Smaug.
The Dwarves, Bilbo, and Gandalf encountered many dangers on their journey to the Lonely Mountain, surviving Trolls, Orcs, Wargs, and Spiders. He found the legendary sword Orcrist in a troll-hoard, along with Glamdring. In Rivendell, the Company rested and Elrond translated the Moon-letters on Thrór's Map. During their journey through Mirkwood, Thorin and his Company encountered spiders and were later imprisoned by the Elvenking Thranduil. They escaped in barrels and traveled down to Lake-town.
Thorin and Company were greeted warmly by the people of Lake-town and hailed as the return of the King under the Mountain. They soon reached the Lonely Mountain and the Dwarves sent Bilbo inside, who conversed with a newly awakened Smaug. Realizing that the Lake-men must have helped the intruders, an enraged Smaug flew towards Lake-town to take revenge. There he was killed by Bard the Bowman, who pierced the bare spot on Smaug's left breast with his Black Arrow.
Following the death of Smaug, the people of Lake-town asked Thorin for a share of the treasure, as they wanted recompense for the destruction of their home, a part of Smaug's treasure originating from their former city, and because a man of Lake-town who shot the fatal arrow that killed Smaug. Thorin, overwhelmed by greed after recovering his family's riches, and enraged by the presence of Thranduil, refused to share any part of the treasure. Instead, he sent a Raven to seek aid from his relative, Dáin Ironfoot, who sent a force of Dwarven soldiers on the move to secure the reclaimed mountain city. Meanwhile, Thorin charged his companions with looking for the Arkenstone within the hoard of treasure, and gifted Bilbo a mithril shirt for his bravery. However, Bilbo had already found the Arkenstone, and subsequently, brought it to Bard and Thranduil in secret to use as a bargaining counter. When Thorin learned of this, he became enraged and denounced his former companion as a traitor.
The death of Thorin II Oakenshield in The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies
The growing conflict over the treasure between Dwarves, Elves, and Men, likely to result in bloodshed, was suddenly averted by the approach of goblin and warg armies, so they instead joined forces to defeat their common enemies in what was later called the Battle of Five Armies. During the battle, Thorin led an assault that proved his strength as a leader, striking out from the mountain and providing vital aid as the goblins threatened to overwhelm his allies. He fought courageously, but was mortally wounded in the battle, requiring Beorn to take him to safety.
Thorin's burial
Before he died, he made his peace with Bilbo by commending the Hobbit's bravery and good character, apologising for his harsh words as he now recognised his comrade's fundamentally benevolent motives. His last words were, "If more of us valued food and cheer and song above hoarded gold, it would be a merrier world. But, sad or merry, I must leave it now. Farewell."
© by gravity-zero
Thorin was smart, proud, brave, intelligent, vengeful, and a bit stubborn. He was sophisticated and noble, but tended to treat his allies as equals. He was respected by many throughout Middle-earth.
While he initially shared the greed of his family and had an extensive love for gold, he valued the welfare of others as well. He was immensely brave and was willing to give himself up for a just cause, until Dragon-sickness came over him.
After succumbing to Dragon-sickness, he seemed to be cruel, stubborn, and vain, and overvalued the treasure of Erebor. He was obsessed with possession of the Arkenstone, since it was the heirloom of his family and part of the Mountain itself. However, in his last moments after the battle, his true noble self returned, and he asked Bilbo for forgiveness. His death had a profound effect on Bilbo, as he had considered Thorin a great friend and brother.
Thorin fought using typical Dwarven axes, a bow, and swords, as well as an Elven blade called Orcrist, which was given to him by Gandalf the Grey (Gandalf had found it in a Troll cave). Under Thranduil's imprisonment, the blade had been confiscated by the Wood-elves.
At Thorin's burial, Thranduil decided it was more appropriate to place it on Thorin's tomb, and did so, along with the Arkenstone.
Thorin II Oakenshield (1977)
In the 1977 animated version of The Hobbit, Thorin is voiced by Hans Conreid.
Although Thorin makes no appearance in Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings trilogy, he is mentioned by Gandalf in the extended edition of The Fellowship of the Ring, during the Fellowship's journey through Moria. When the Fellowship passes through a cavern full of mithril, Gandalf tells the others that Bilbo had a shirt of mithril rings that Thorin gave him. Gimli remarks that that was a kingly gift, and Gandalf responds that the shirt was worth more than the whole of the Shire, something he never told Bilbo. This makes Frodo uncomfortable, as he (unknown to the rest of the Fellowship) is wearing the exact same shirt at that moment.
If this is to end in fire, then we will all burn together.—Thorin Oakenshield
Thorin with his sword, Orcrist
In The Hobbit film trilogy, Thorin is portrayed by Richard Armitage. The studio released the following statement about Thorin in the trilogy:
As a young Dwarf Prince, Thorin witnessed the destruction and terror wrought when a great fire-breathing dragon attacked the Dwarf Kingdom of the Lonely Mountain. When no one came to the aid of the surviving Dwarves, a once proud and noble race was forced into exile. Now, as the strong, fearless fighter and respected leader of The Company of Dwarves, Thorin is determined to reclaim his homeland and destroy the beast that brought such misery upon his people.—The Hobbit
In The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, Thorin has a long-standing grudge with King Thranduil for not helping his grandfather save Erebor from Smaug and for not offering any aid to the refugees afterward. This makes him extremely bitter toward the Elves, to the point that he almost rejects Orcrist upon discovering it. Thorin is also seen wielding a short sword called 'Deathless' during the first part of the movie, as well as a metal battleaxe.
A sub-plot in The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey (2012) is the Orc warlord Azog's pursuit of Thorin, to wipe out the House of Durin. In contrast to Tolkien's mythos, in which Dáin Ironfoot beheaded Azog long before the events of The Hobbit, in the movie Thorin slices off Azog's arm at the Battle of Azanulbizar and Azog survives to pursue Thorin and Company for revenge during the Quest of Erebor.
As seen in the first film, Thorin earns his epithet Oakenshield during his fight against Azog at the Battle of Azanulbizar where he uses an oaken branch as both a weapon and shield. In the second film, Thorin has Orcrist taken from him by Legolas following the battle with the spiders of Mirkwood and the party's capture by the Wood-elves. Thorin would later obtain a human long sword for the raid on Erebor from Lake-town's armory.
In the first two films, Thorin is seen with different kinds of weapons aside Orcrist; he wields an axe, swords, bow, and an oaken branch.
In the films, he is portrayed rather friendly, but hostile to the Elves and suspicious of Bilbo. However, in The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, he becomes more determined to gain the Arkenstone and the treasure. This leads to him becoming increasingly determined to have it, even willing to let Bilbo die rather than risk the quest to fail. When Balin realizes that Thorin was not himself, he believes that the sickness has fallen onto his companion and convinces him to enter the mountain to save Bilbo. When he learns that Bilbo doesn't have the Arkenstone, he menacingly walks towards him and puts his sword out towards him, as if he intends to kill him, only to be stopped when he notices Smaug.
Farewell, Master Burglar. Go back to your books... and your armchair. Plant your trees... watch them grow. If more people valued home above gold, this world would be a merrier place.—The Hobbit: Battle of the Five Armies
In the final film, Balin recognizes that Thorin has utterly succumbed to Dragon-sickness, and confides this tearfully to Bilbo. Thorin even begins to talk like Smaug, slowly, stressing sibilant syllables. He repeatedly berates and shouts at his followers, almost strangling Bilbo to death on the revelation that he gave the Arkenstone to Bard and Thranduil and later banishes and threatens to kill Dwalin. When the battle breaks out, he refuses to help the Elves, Lake-men, or even his cousin Dáin against the Orcs, and he barricades himself in the mountain, along with his company, who by now clearly follow his orders out of loyalty alone rather than love. Dwalin eventually confronts Thorin on his throne, who accuses him of being a lesser man since he crowned himself king. This causes Thorin to lash out, but he slowly begins to break out of the dragon-sickness consuming him.
He eventually comes to his senses after experiencing a hallucination of Smaug underneath a solid gold floor created from their attempt to kill him, casting off his grandfather's crown and robes, he leads his relieved company to reinforce Dáin's forces who rally around their rightful King and push back against the Orcs. It becomes clear, however, that they are nonetheless outnumbered, and the departure of King Thranduil renders the defenders even weaker. Thorin decides to take his best warriors, Dwalin, Fíli and Kíli, and go to Ravenhill, intending to kill Azog and plunge the Orcs into disarray, perhaps securing victory.
However, upon finding the Orcish command post upon Ravenhill's ruined towers seemingly abandoned, Thorin, wary of the situation, sends Fíli and Kíli to scout the towers, warning them not to engage. Bilbo then arrives, too late, warning Thorin that he is caught in an ambush. Fíli is trapped by Orcs and turned over to Azog, who reveals himself to Thorin, impaling Fíli and throwing him from the top of one of the towers. Thorin enters, intending to rescue Kíli, who is instead impaled by Bolg. Thorin himself only survives due to assistance from Legolas, who kills Bolg. Thorin finally throws down with Azog on the edge of a frozen waterfall. Wielding a brick on a chain as a flail, Azog eventually smashes the ice, only to fall into the water and seemingly drown due to the weight of his own weapon. However, Azog floats back to the surface, and stabs Thorin in the foot from under the ice. While he is incapacitated, Azog re-emerges, fatally wounding him in the chest, only to be stabbed by Thorin in turn, who completely impales Azog, killing him immediately. Thorin survives long enough to be found by Bilbo and has time to make peace with Bilbo and say a final farewell before succumbing to his wounds. The surviving members of the company later kneel by his body as a mark of respect, before he is eventually entombed with Orcrist and the Arkenstone.
In Peter Jackson's films, Thorin begins his quest with his sword, axe, and oak-branch shield. He wielded his sword, Deathless, against the trolls, but was forced to surrender, when the trolls threatened kill to Bilbo. Thorin later recovered his sword after Gandalf saved them. Later, Thorin discovered an Elven blade in the troll's hoard. Reluctant at first, Thorin later keeps the blade when Gandalf tells him that it would be the best he could find. It is unknown what happens to his original sword, but it is presumed that he left it in the troll hoard, as it is not seen again after that. Thorin wields the sword during the Orc chase, and slays a warg with it. When the company travels to Rivendell, Elrond tells Thorin that his sword's name is Orcrist.
While traveling from Rivendell to the Misty Mountains, Thorin's axe is seen as more of a walking axe, than a battleaxe. After the company is captured by goblins, Orcrist is taken by them. When the Dwarves are brought before the Great Goblin, Grinnah finds Orcrist, alerting the other goblins of its presence, and the Great Goblin orders the Dwarves' execution over it. When Gandalf saves the Dwarves, Nori gives Orcrist to Thorin, which he injures the Great Goblin with. It is presumed that when the Dwarves escape, Thorin loses his axe, as it is not seen again. In his battle against Azog, Thorin uses Orcrist and his oak-branch against him. When the eagles save the group, Thorin drops his oak-branch as an eagle picks him up. Thorin is not seen using Orcrist until Mirkwood, where he uses it to slay many spiders, until Mirkwood Elves capture them. Legolas confiscates Orcrist, and the company is captured. When the Dwarves escape from the Orcs in the barrel chase, Thorin takes swords and axes from the Orcs, dropping them as it goes. After the company gets help from Lake-town, Thorin uses a sword when they get to the Lonely Mountain. In The Battle of the Five Armies, Thorin fires a warning shot at Thranduil, telling him not to approach him. Thorin leads the company into the Battle of Five Armies with a sword and a shield, with which he slays many Orcs. Thorin briefly fights Azog on Ravenhill, where he fends off a pack of Goblin mercenaries with a dagger, and the help of Legolas.
In the final battle, Thorin fights Azog with Orcrist, which he recovers from Legolas. Azog attempts to stab Thorin, but is prevented when Thorin uses Orcrist to block his blade. In the end, Thorin gives in, and is stabbed by Azog. However, Thorin impales Azog back, and thrusts Orcrist into him so hard that the blade pierces the ice beneath them. At his funeral, Thorin is buried with Orcrist, along with the Arkenstone.
John Justin voiced the character in the 1968 BBC Radio radio adaptation of The Hobbit.
Tom Luce voiced the character in the 1979 The Mind's Eye radio adaptation of The Hobbit.
Heinz Schacht voiced the character in the 1980 German radio serial adaptation of The Hobbit.
Ľubomír Roman voiced the character in the 1989 Slovak two-episode radio miniseries adaptation of The Hobbit. 
He is an important Dwarf and "King under the Mountain." He gives Bilbo some of the tasks, such as investigating the mysterious fire-light and opening the doors to the great rooms of the Kingdom under the Mountain. Not only that, but he also tells Bilbo to retrieve the Arkenstone from the locked treasury.
General Thorin in Gene Deitch's version by [Ghostwalker2061].
His actual name is unknown.
The Master of Lake-town
The Master of Lake-town ruled Lake-town in TA 2941 of the Third Age, it is unknown exactly when he was elected to the position. The Master's rule in Lake-town was rather amicable, and therefore under his dominion the Men of the Long Lake traded peaceably with the Elves of Mirkwood, creating a steady trade that was kept until 2941, when Thorin and his company came to wrest dominion of the Lonely Mountain and its riches from Smaug.
When the Dwarves arrived, the Master of Lake-town greeted them generously, but only to keep public spirits up. After the destruction of Lake-town and the slaying of the dragon by Bard, the townspeople denounced the Master as a coward and called for Bard's ascension as King. The Master, who was an adroit politician, shifted blame for Lake-town's destruction to Thorin and the Dwarves, who had roused the dragon in the first place. This succeeded in turning the townspeople's ire towards the Dwarves. Bard took the lead in rebuilding the remains of the town and gathering supplies for the coming winter, but was careful to act in the Master's name, so as not to usurp the latter's authority.
After the Battle of Five Armies, Bard became King of Dale, but gave a generous portion of his share of the Lonely Mountain's treasure (received from Dáin II Ironfoot) to the Master, for the re-building of Lake-town. Unfortunately at some point before TA 2949, the Master succumbed to greed and fled Lake-town with most of the gold, and later died of starvation in the wastes, after being deserted by his companions. A new more honest Master was then elected.
The Master
In Peter Jackson's adaptation of The Hobbit, the Master is played by English actor Stephen Fry. In the films, he takes on a more directly antagonistic role, presented as a greedy and corrupt public official, whose primary concern rests with retaining his own power and position. He shows little interest in Lake-town’s destitute state, instead turning his attention to the acquisition of tolls and taxes.
In TA 2941, when the growing civil unrest that concerned his leadership, and threatened for an election, the Master used a network of informants throughout the city to spy on Bard, as he was jealous of the bargeman and was suspicious that he was responsible for the growing threat to his authority.
When Thorin and Company are arrested for stealing weapons from the Lake-town armoury, the Master is quick to label them as enemies of the state. However, the revelation of Thorin’s royal linage and his promise of a share in the riches of the Lonely Mountain, persuades the Master to welcome the Dwarves, seeing the situation as a chance not only to restore his ailing popularity, but also as a way of increasing his own wealth. Providing the Dwarves with weapons and equipment the Master bids them farewell, trusting to their gratitude upon the successful completion of their quest.
Master of Lake-town and Alfrid escaping from the flame of Smaug
Later, as Bard attempts to reach the wind lance ballista atop the Lake-town Town Hall, guards sent by the Master arrest him under fabricated charges. Bard manages to escape, only to be knocked unconscious by the Master himself, who subsequently has him incarcerated. His every whim is attended to by his personal assistant and councillor Alfrid Lickspittle, who performs tasks that the Master deems beneath himself, such as emptying his chamber pot.
After Bard is arrested under fabricated charges, the dragon Smaug attacks Lake-town. The Master tries to escape on a boat with all of the town's gold as an act of cowardice, along with Alfrid, the captain of the guards Braga, and a few guards. But when Smaug is killed by the Black Arrow shot by Bard, the Master, his boat, and everyone on it (except Alfrid, who was abandoned shortly before that) are crushed to death under the weight of the dragon's dead body.
Taking great pride in his power and position, the Master cared only for his own prosperity and gain. His pompous attire manifests as an outward expression of his greed, displaying his wealth for all to see. Harboring a powerful sense of his own self-importance, the Master dresses his guards in regalia every bit as pretentious as his own. Despite his democratically held position, the Master suppressed all challenges to his authority.
In line with the book, the Master is shown to have a good head for business, a talent expressed in the films through the toll gates he has constructed, and the taxes he has levied. He also displays a keen political mind befitting someone of his position, recognizing the arrival of the Dwarves as a way of bolstering his own failing popularity.
The Lego Master of Lake-town
Master of Lake-town appears in one LEGO set, 79013 Lake-town Chase. He also appeared in LEGO The Hobbit: The Video Game as an unlockable character. He can be found on a bridge of Lake-town.
The Master is given a number of names in adaptations or spin-off material, which is not canonical.
In the play adaptation of The Hobbit by Edward Mast, the Master is named "Maxwell".
In The Lord of the Rings Online, he is given the name "Othur".
Melkor (Quenya; "He who arises in might"), predominantly known as Morgoth (Sindarin; "Black Foe of the World"), was the first Dark Lord, and the primordial source of evil in Eä.
Originally the most powerful of the Ainur created by Eru Ilúvatar, Melkor rebelled against his creator out of pride and sought to corrupt Arda. After committing many evils across the First Age and preceding eras, such as the theft of the Silmarils, which resulted in his name Morgoth, and the destruction of the Two Lamps and the Two Trees of Valinor, Morgoth was defeated by the Host of Valinor in the War of Wrath. As punishment, he was banished from of Arda into the Void, though it was prophesied that he would one day return.
Melkor (front) weaves his music with Eru's
Melkor was created by Eru Ilúvatar in the Timeless Halls at the beginning of creation; he was greater in power and knowledge than the other Ainur. His brother was Manwë.
Impatient with the emptiness of the Void outside the Timeless Halls, and desiring to create things of his own, he often entered the Void seeking the Flame Imperishable, but the Flame was of Ilúvatar and resided with him, and Melkor never discovered it. Melkor continued to search, however, and as such was often alone and apart from his fellow Ainur. It was during these lonesome periods that he began to have ideas and thoughts of his own that were not in accordance with his fellow Ainur.
Melkor entering Arda, by Kip Rasmussen
When the Ainur sang the Great Music before Eru, he wove some of these alien thoughts into his music, and straightaway discord arose around him. Some of those nearby attuned their music to his, until two musical themes were warring before the Throne. To correct the discord, Eru introduced a Second, and then a Third Theme into the music. But Melkor succeeded in holding back the Second theme, of which Manwë was the chief instrument. The Third was the theme of Elves and Men, and while it was not overwhelmed by the discord as the Second theme was, it too failed to correct it. When Eru brought the Music to an end, he rebuked Melkor, praising his strength but reminding him that, as an aspect of his creator's thought, anything that he could bring into being ultimately had its source within Eru himself. As such, even the discord redounded in the end to the glory of Eru's work. This rebuke shamed Melkor, but brought on anger in him as well, though he hid it. Thus when the Music was made incarnate as Arda, it was already flawed through the Discord, and immoderate heat and great cold stalked it. Melkor then took in the interest of the World and descended to it with the other Valar.
When the Valar entered into Arda and began to shape the unwrought matter, Melkor saw the Field of Arda and claimed it for his own. However, the other Valar took Manwë to be their lord, for while Manwë was not nearly so powerful as Melkor, he understood the thought of Eru better than any of his peers. Bitter, Melkor set himself against the other Valar. Whenever the Valar worked to better the world, Melkor disrupted their efforts. For a long while, Melkor fought alone against the might of all the other Valar and Maiar of Arda, and he long held the upper hand. During this time, Arda was kept essentially shapeless, as Melkor ruined virtually every early work that the other Valar attempted to create. Fortunately for them, the mighty Vala Tulkas eventually descended to Arda, and his strength tipped the balance in favor of the Valar. Melkor fled before him, and left Arda for a time.
After Melkor's departure, the Valar managed to quiet the tumults of the world, and set about ordering it in preparation for the coming of the Elves. To give light to the world, they constructed two Great Lamps in Middle-earth and set their place of dwelling in the midst of them. During this time, Melkor re-entered Arda with the various Maiar spirits who had attuned themselves to his music, and delved a mighty fortress at the very north-most part of the World and named it Utumno. To defend it, he raised the Iron Mountains as a ring around the north. Decay arose in the North, and the Valar thus knew that Melkor had returned. Before they could begin to search for him however, Melkor came forth from Utumno with sudden war, and cast down the Lamps. The fire within the Lamps scorched a great portion of the world, and containing the catastrophe caused by their breaking kept the Valar occupied long enough for Melkor and his forces to retreat back to Utumno.
After the destruction of the Lamps, the Valar withdrew to the continent of Aman and there built Valinor. In doing so, however, they gave Melkor virtually free-reign in Middle-earth. As a result, the continent languished in darkness, and Melkor filled its lands with terrible creatures and decay. During this time, Melkor built his second, lesser fortress of Angband in the west, as a defense in the West should the Valar attack. Angband was delved into the Iron Mountains, and was given to Sauron to command. While the Valar were unsure where the Children of Ilúvatar would awake, they were reluctant to wage war against Melkor, fearing the clash of powers might result in massive collateral damage the likes of which they had not seen since the Lamps were destroyed. As such, most of them remained in Aman and forsook Middle-earth. Due to this, Melkor discovered the Elves before the other Valar, captured many of them, and transformed them by torture and other foul craft into the first Orcs in mockery of the Elves.
When it was discovered by the Vala Oromë where the Elves were, the Valar took immediate action against Melkor, instigating the War of the Powers. The Valar overcame the hosts of Melkor and he retreated into Utumno. After a grievous siege, the Valar rent the doors open and Melkor was captured. Melkor was bound with Angainor and brought back to Valinor. There, he pleaded for pardon, but was cast into the Halls of Mandos for three Ages. However, in their haste to overthrow Melkor, the Valar left many of Utumno's pits and vaults unexplored, and Sauron remained at large. Additionally, they did not capture or destroy the Balrogs, who gathered at the ruins of Angband and went into a long hibernation, awaiting Melkor's return.
After the passing of the Ages, Melkor was brought before Manwë, and feigned repentance. Unable to comprehend the evil of Melkor, being himself free of it, Manwë ordered him released. At first, it seemed as though the evil of Melkor had been cured, for all who sought his counsel and aid in that time benefited greatly from it. However, Tulkas and Ulmo were both very slow to forget Melkor's evils, and watched him closely. In truth, Melkor was more filled with malice than ever, and began to put his extraordinary cunning to use in devising a way to ruin Aman. Seeing the bliss of the Elves and remembering that it was for their sake that he was overthrown, Melkor desired above all things to corrupt them. Of all the three primary groups of Elves, he found the Ñoldor to have a perfect balance of usefulness and open ears, and so worked his malice almost exclusively among them.
Over a long period of time he spread lies concerning the intentions of the Valar in bringing the Elves to Aman, telling them, among other things, tales of the coming of Men, the existence of which the Valar had not revealed to the Elves. Due to his carefully crafted lies, many of the Ñoldor began to believe that the Valar had brought them to Aman so that Men might inherit Middle-earth, taking the lands and the glory that could have been theirs. Eventually, a shadow fell upon the Ñoldor, and they began to openly rebel against the Valar. Chief amongst the disgruntled Ñoldor was Fëanor, the firstborn son of the Ñoldor King Finwë. Though he hated and feared Melkor, his overwhelming pride caused him to be the most vocal of the Ñoldor in expressing discontent. For their part, the Valar remained unaware of Melkor's work, and saw Fëanor as the source of the Ñoldor's unrest. Though perturbed, they let the situation continue until Fëanor threatened his brother Fingolfin with violence, at which point the Valar summoned him to the Ring of Doom in Valinor to explain his unlawful actions.
Melkor with Ungoliant
Fëanor's testimony revealed the lies of Melkor, and Tulkas immediately left the Ring of Doom to recapture him. But Melkor could not be found. After a time, Melkor went to Formenos and feigned friendship to Fëanor in order to acquire the Silmarils. But Fëanor, seeing Melkor's greed, refused him and shut the doors of Formenos in the face of Arda's mightiest being. Melkor then passed unseen to the south, and came upon Ungoliant. Promising to sate her unrelenting hunger, she and Melkor came back to Valinor, intending to destroy the Two Trees of Valinor. Then, during a time of festival, Melkor and Ungoliant suddenly attacked. Melkor thrust a great spear into the Trees and Ungoliant drank the sap that poured from the wounds, draining the Trees and poisoning them. The Trees quickly withered and died, plunging Aman into complete darkness for a time.
In the fear and confusion that followed, Melkor sped to Formenos and broke into the fortress. There, he slew Finwë, father of Fëanor, and stole the Silmarils along with all the other gems that lay there. The Silmarils burned Melkor's hand, causing him immeasurable agony, but he did not release them. He and Ungoliant fled to the North, and the Valar gave chase, but the Unlight of Ungoliant bewildered them and the two escaped. The two thieves crossed the Grinding Ice of the Helcaraxë and entered into Middle-earth, completing Melkor's revenge.
In Lammoth, Melkor and Ungoliant approached the ruins of Angband, with Melkor hoping to escape and leave his promise to feed Ungoliant unfulfilled. Ungoliant saw through his plan and stopped with him before they reached Angband. She demanded that he surrender the treasure of Formenos to sate her hunger as he had promised, and begrudgingly he gave her the lesser treasures he had taken, but would not yield the Silmarils. For his refusal, Ungoliant attacked Melkor, weaving her dark webbing about him. His resulting cry of pain and anguish roused the Balrogs from their slumber in the darkest depths of Angband. They came swiftly to his aid and drove Ungoliant away. He then began to rebuild Angband, and to gather his servants there.
When Fëanor found his father was slain, he cursed Melkor and named him Morgoth, meaning "Dark Enemy", and by that name was he known ever after. The name Melkor was never spoken again by his enemies.
The peaks of Thangorodrim
As Morgoth finished rebuilding Angband, the slag and debris created by his vast tunnelings was plied into three huge volcanoes, collectively known as Thangorodrim. He hastened then to rebuild his forces, breeding innumerable Orcs and other fell beasts. The Silmarils were mounted into the Iron Crown. Fëanor followed Morgoth to Middle-earth with the greater part of the Ñoldor in rebellion, hoping to recover the Silmarils. This action triggered the tragic War of the Jewels, in which the Elves would be utterly defeated in the end.
Upon learning of the arrival of the Ñoldor in Middle-earth, Morgoth sent armies of Orcs against Fëanor's host, hoping to destroy them before they could establish any viable defenses. Though the Ñoldor were outnumbered, they swiftly and completely destroyed the Orcs; only a handful returned to Angband. But Fëanor, in his pride and arrogance, thought to come at Morgoth himself and pursued them. Soon, he and his vanguard drew far ahead of the main host, and the Orcs, seeing this, turned and gave battle at the gates of Angband. Due to their proximity to Angband, a number of Balrogs emerged to aid the Orcs, and the Elves with Fëanor were quickly killed. Fëanor fought on alone, but was eventually struck down by Gothmog, the first and greater Lord of Balrogs. Though a relief force under the command of his sons saved him from being killed on the field of battle, Fëanor's wounds were mortal and he perished soon after.
Shortly after Fëanor's death, Morgoth sent an embassy to the Ñoldor offering terms of surrender, even promising a Silmaril. Maedhros, Fëanor's heir, agreed to the parley, but both sides, expecting treachery, came with greater force than was agreed. Unfortunately for the Elves, Morgoth's force was the greater of the two, and was accompanied by Balrogs. The Elven company was quickly slain with the exception of Maedhros, who was captured and chained by his right hand to one of Thangorodrim's many cliffs. Morgoth sent word to the Ñoldor, promising to release Maedhros on the condition that the Elves would depart from the North and cease their war against him. However, the Elves knew that Morgoth would not honor his word, and sent no reply.
It was at this time that the host of Fingolfin, which had been betrayed and abandoned by Fëanor's host in Aman, came at last to Middle-earth. Tension between the two hosts quickly developed and Morgoth, seeing that the Ñoldor were divided, made plans to destroy his distracted foes. To his dismay, however, the Valar revealed the creation of the Sun and the Moon, which confounded Morgoth and his servants for a time. To counter these new lights, Morgoth sent up nigh-impenetrable clouds of smoke from the Iron Mountains to darken Hithlum.
During the time of confusion and inaction among Morgoth's forces by these new lights, Fingon traveled to Angband, aided by the very darkness Morgoth had set upon Hithlum, and rescued Maedhros. In doing so, he set into motion a series of events that united the Ñoldor and allowed them to establish mighty kingdoms in Beleriand and Hithlum. The Ñoldor then set a siege upon Angband, hoping to forever contain the evil of Morgoth. When he had waited many years, Morgoth made trial of his foes, causing the Iron Mountains to erupt and sending an army of Orcs down through the passes, but to no avail, for the Orcs were easily defeated by the Ñoldor in the Dagor Aglareb. After this failure, Morgoth took to capturing what Elves he could, breaking them with the power of his will and chaining their lives to his. These Elves became his spies among the Ñoldor, and they kept him appraised of the movements and plans of his enemies.
The burning of Ard-galen at the beginning of the Dagor Bragollach, by Marya Filatova
One hundred years later, Morgoth sent an army into the north to approach Hithlum from the side, but an army under the command of Fingon destroyed them yet again in the Battle of the Firth of Drengist. At this point, Morgoth came to realize that the Orcs unaided were no match for the Ñoldor, and began experimenting with ways to create deadlier creatures for his armies. Another century passed, and the issuing of the first dragon, Glaurung, demonstrated the results of Morgoth's long labor. Glaurung's sudden appearance scattered the Elves in the immediate vicinity of Angband, but a company of archers under Fingon's command engaged him before he could do much more than frighten the Elves. As Glaurung was barely half-grown, his hide was not yet invulnerable to the Elven arrows and he fled the field. Morgoth was displeased with Glaurung for revealing himself before his creator had planned, but ultimately Glaurung's youthful foray was of little consequence.
Some time later, when men first arrived in Beleriand, it was revealed that Morgoth had left Angband and walked among the fathers of Men. Hoping to corrupt them to his service, he spread his lies among them, and found them to be considerably easier to sway than the Elves had been. However, the strengthening of the Elven kingdoms worried Morgoth, and he returned to Angband before his labors were complete. Nevertheless, most Men believed or half-believed his lies and either departed from the North or joined with Morgoth's forces. However, a small group of men that became known as the Edain resisted him. They strengthened the siege of Angband, as many settled in the north of Beleriand, adding to the strength of the Ñoldor.
Morgoth duels Fingolfin (by Ted Nasmith)
About 455 years after Fingolfin came to Middle-earth, Morgoth deemed that the time was ripe to destroy the Elves and their allies. One cold winter night, when the Elven watch was least vigilant, Morgoth sent forth terrible rivers of fire and lava from Thangorodrim and poisonous fumes from the Iron Mountains. The Elves were completely unprepared for such an assault, and a great many Ñoldor perished on the Ard-galen, as the fires consumed it and transformed it into a lifeless wasteland, forever after known as the Anfauglith. In the wake of these fires there came Glaurung, now fully grown, the Balrogs, and armies of Orcs and other monsters in numbers such as the Elves had never conceived of. Thus began the Dagor Bragollach. The Siege of Angband was swiftly broken and the forces of the Elves were scattered. So swift and overwhelming was Morgoth's assault that the various Elven kingdoms were unable to marshal their forces in any sort of unified front, and as such Morgoth was able to engage the Elven forces in a piecemeal fashion, greatly blunting the effectiveness of any resistance.
With the exception of Maedhros and his fortress upon the hill of Himring, the sons of Fëanor and Finarfin were overthrown and utterly defeated. Fingolfin and Fingon only just barely managed to defend Hithlum from Morgoth's onslaught, as the mountains surrounding it provided an effective barrier against Morgoth's fires. The Elves were completely driven from the forests of Dorthonion, and many of the Sindar forsook the war altogether and went to Doriath. When news came to Fingolfin of the totality of the disasters that had befallen the Elven forces, a great despair came upon him. Believing the Ñoldor to have been defeated beyond any hope of recovery, he rode forth alone from Hithlum to the gates of Angband in a wrath so potent that he was said to have resembled Oromë himself. When he arrived, he smote upon the doors of Morgoth's fortress, challenging the Dark Lord to come forth to single combat. Though Morgoth did not wish to, Fingolfin's challenge was heard by all in Angband, and was given in such an insulting manner that to ignore it would have been to lose face before his captains.
Morgoth issued forth in black armor from Angband to confront Fingolfin. Wielding the terrible hammer Grond, Morgoth repeatedly attempted to smite the Elven king, but succeeded only in carving many fiery pits in the ground from his missed strikes. Fingolfin long managed to avoid Morgoth's blows, and wounded the Dark Lord seven times. But at last, Fingolfin grew weary, and Morgoth thrice drove him to his knees. Fingolfin arose each time to continue the fight, but eventually he fell backwards into one of the many pits formed by Morgoth's missed attacks. Morgoth then set his foot upon Fingolfin's neck and killed him, but not before Fingolfin, with his last stroke, hewed Morgoth's foot with his sword. Then Morgoth broke the Elf's body and prepared to feed it to his wolves. But Thorondor, the King of the Eagles, swooped down upon Morgoth, marring his face with his talons, and rescued the body of the elf-king.
Fingolfin's last stroke gave Morgoth a permanent limp, and the pain of his seven wounds could not be healed, nor were the scars ever erased.
However, despite his great victory, Morgoth had made a critical mistake. So great had been his malice and his desire to destroy the Elves that he had struck before his plans were fully realized, and in his hatred and contempt he had underestimated the resolve and valor of his foes. Now Morgoth found that the Elves and Edain, recovering from the initial shock of his onslaught, had begun to make small gains against his outlying forces. He therefore checked his advance, and withdrew the main host of Orcs to Angband. For though he knew that his victory had been relatively decisive, his own losses had been as numerous as the losses that had been accrued by the Elves. Afterwards, Morgoth sent out many spies, and he sent messengers to Men, feigning pity. When the Edain refused his false offers of peace, he summoned the Easterlings over the Blue Mountains to harass them militarily. Seven years passed before Morgoth renewed his offensive. He assailed Hithlum with great strength but just as he was on the verge of victory, Círdan and a host under his command came at the last moment and helped Fingon to turn the Orcs back.
Some time later, the Elf-maiden Lúthien and her human lover Beren, seeking to recover a Silmaril, came disguised to Morgoth's court. Morgoth was able to see through her disguise, but she was undaunted by his eyes, and offered to sing for him. As she sang, Morgoth conceived a lust and an evil more abominable than any he had yet committed, and allowed her to continue singing. But as he delighted in his thought, suddenly shadow hid her, and she sang a song of great and terrible power that cast a spell of sleep.
Lúthien and Morgoth, by Luca Michelucci
All Morgoth's court was cast down in slumber by her song, but the Silmarils burned, and became so heavy that the head of Morgoth sagged upon his chest. He fell from his throne, the Iron Crown rolled away from him, and Beren cut a Silmaril from it with Angrist. However, rather than leaving immediately with his prize, he tried to take another of the Silmarils. As he attempted to pry the second jewel loose, his knife snapped. One shard struck Morgoth's face, and he began to awaken. Beren and Lúthien fled in terror, but were not chased, as Morgoth and his court had not yet woken. However, at the gates of Angband the werewolf Carcharoth was aware of them, and bit off Beren's hand, and took with it the Silmaril. Burning from the inside at the touch of the holy jewel, Carcharoth went mad and fled in wrath from Angband, slaughtering all who stood in his path. Then Morgoth awoke, and in a rage he and his court roared up in pursuit, only to see Thorondor carrying off the raiders. Morgoth's rage at the loss of the Silmaril caused the Iron Mountains to begin erupting, terrifying all those who could see it. Ultimately however, he was unable to recover the gem.
Soon after, Morgoth became aware that Maedhros was making a great league against him, and driving his Orcs off the northern heights of Beleriand. As such, he took council against them and prepared his forces for a major confrontation. When the Elves eventually made it to Angband, the Battle of Nírnaeth Arnoediad began. Ultimately, the battle was a complete and decisive victory for Morgoth. The power of the Elves and their Edain compatriots to make war against Morgoth was utterly and permanently broken. All of the great kingdoms of the Ñoldor in Beleriand except Gondolin and Nargothrond, were destroyed, and Hithlum was at last taken as well. The Edain who did not flee were enslaved by Easterlings, and Húrin was taken captive.
Morgoth was also well known for the imprisonment of Húrin of the House of Hador during the Nírnaeth Arnoediad. In the last hours of the battle, Húrin and his kin defended Turgon, for he was the last heir of the house of Fingolfin after Fingon fell in the battle. Turgon narrowly escaped the clutches of the host of Orcs due to the valor of Húrin, Huor, and their men.
Morgoth sentences Húrin, by Ted Nasmith
Unfortunately, all but Húrin fell after the onslaught of Morgoth's forces. After slaying untold numbers of Trolls and Orcs single-handedly, Húrin was captured by Gothmog and taken to Angband. Morgoth knew that Húrin had been to Gondolin, and therefore knew the city's location. He sought to extract the information from him. Lungorthin, the lesser Lord of Balrogs and the second most mighty of the fire demons, smoted Hurin across the mouth with a whistling whip. Despite inflicting terrible torment upon his captive, Lungorthin and in turn Morgoth were unsuccessful in gaining any answers.
From a distance Morgoth put the son and daughter of Húrin, Túrin and Niënor, under a species of diabolic oppression: his thought followed them and gave them bad luck, though they were not possessed. By this means he drove them at last to madness and despair; though there is doubt as to whether in the extremity of his malice he cheated himself, as their madness saved them from damnation.
Behold! The Shadow of my thought shall lie upon them wherever they go, and my hate shall pursue them to the ends of the world.—The Children of Húrin
Then, continuing his curse, he said:
But all whom you love my thought shall weigh as a cloud of Doom, and it shall bring them down into darkness and despair. Wherever they go, evil shall arise. Wherever they speak, their words shall bring ill counsel. Whatsoever they do shall turn against them. They shall die without hope, cursing both life and death.—The Children of Húrin
And so Húrin stayed and was chained atop Thangorodrim, watching his homelands fall under the shadow of Morgoth until he released him. Túrin, who was valiant and powerful, nearly escaped the curse, as feared by Morgoth, but in the end did not. He and his sister Niënor perished. Thus, the curse of Morgoth on the Children of Húrin was fulfilled.
It was said that Morgoth hated and feared the House of Fingolfin most among the Houses of the sons of Finwë, especially Fingolfin's son Turgon, as it was prophesied that his doom would come from the House of Turgon. Following Turgon's escape from the Nírnaeth Arnoediad, Morgoth sought to find and destroy the last of the free kingdoms of the Ñoldor; Gondolin, where Turgon reigned.
Though he had been unable to force Húrin to reveal the location of the last great Elven kingdom, Morgoth eventually captured Maeglin, sister-son of Turgon. Threatened with unimaginable torment, Maeglin offered the secrets of Gondolin's defenses in exchange for his own well-being. Additionally, he made a promise to kill Tuor personally, and was given permission by Morgoth to take Turgon's daughter Idril for himself. Having lusted after Idril for decades, Morgoth's offer secured Maeglin's loyalty, and he became the Dark Lord's willing servant. After learning all he could from Maeglin, Morgoth sent him back to Gondolin to aid the invasion from within when the time came.
Soon after, Morgoth assailed Gondolin. With Maeglin's treacherous information, Morgoth's forces advanced upon the city nearly undetected, during a time of festival and over the mountains where the watch was least vigilant. By the time the Elves realized their peril, the city had been beleaguered by Morgoth's overwhelmingly superior forces, and quickly fell.
With the sacking of Gondolin and the defeat of the Ñoldor and their allies, Morgoth's long-sought triumph was complete. The great kingdoms of the Elves had all fallen, save for the isle of Balar and the survivors at the Mouths of Sirion, which were ruled by Eärendil, and Morgoth esteemed them as nothing. He even came to care nothing for the Silmaril that had been taken from him, and laughed when he saw the last and the most cruel Kinslaying (when the Sons of Fëanor destroyed the dwelling at Arvernien).
The War of Wrath
Persuaded by Eärendil to take pity on the Elves and Edain, the Valar soon decided to come to Middle-earth and confront Morgoth's tyranny. Unable to understand compassion, Morgoth did not expect that the Valar would ever aid the Ñoldor after their evil deeds, and did not foresee the assault from Aman. But the Valar mustered their forces, and a great, tumultuous battle occurred began between Morgoth and the Host of Valinor. Morgoth emptied all of Angband, and his devices and engines and armies of slaves were so various and powerful that the fighting spilled across all Beleriand.
In the end, Morgoth's forces were utterly defeated. The Balrogs were destroyed, save some few that fled and hid themselves in caverns at the very roots of the earth, and the Orcs were slaughtered. Then Morgoth quailed, and dared not come forth himself, but he had one last weapon at his command: the monstrous Winged Dragons. From out of the pits of Angband they issued, and so sudden and ruinous was their attack, with great power and a tempest of fire, that they drove back the host of the Valar. But then Eärendil came with Vingilot, accompanied by Thorondor and all the great birds, and Eärendil slew Ancalagon the Black, greatest of Morgoth's dragons, and his carcass fell upon the towers of Thangorodrim, breaking them.
Morgoth was utterly defeated, fled into the deepest of his mines, and sued for peace and pardon, but the Valar crippled him and cast him upon his face. He was bound with the chain Angainor, his Iron Crown was beaten into a collar for his neck, and he was taken from the Earth and thrust through the Door of Night into the Timeless Void, outside Time and Space and outside Eä altogether. The two remaining Silmarils were recovered from him, though shortly thereafter they were again lost.
The Door of Night, by John Howe
Morgoth's lies, sowed in the hearts of Elves and Men, would continue to sprout in new, changing ways. Sauron (once Mairon), his former lieutenant, succeeded Morgoth as Arda's new, most powerful figure seeking dominion over others. After his first defeat in the Second Age, Sauron was held prisoner in Númenor, but managed to corrupt its last king, Ar-Pharazôn, and his subjects, into revering Morgoth as a deity. By the Third Age, Sauron's pride overreached himself, and he claimed to be "Morgoth returned", and was held as such by his worshippers and followers.[citation needed]
Morgoth's taint of Arda was more than symbolic as, like the One Ring with Sauron, Morgoth dispersed a great portion of his essence into Middle-earth and like the Sauron's Ring, Arda became the physical container for Morgoth's spirit/will. While the Dark Lord lost a great deal of strength infusing his essence into the world so he could increase his hold over the world, it also meant that even banished, his malevolence would still permeate everything and corrupt the creatures of the world. There are even hints in Tolkien's writing and notes that Morgoth could even reach out from the void and make his voice heard like a silent whisper tempting the children of Eru towards evil or at the least his essence acted like an echo and similarly to the Sauron's Ring had its own dark will that served Morgoth's' ends in his stead.
According to material in some of Tolkien's writings compiled (but not published) by his son, in the last days Morgoth will learn how to break the Door of Night and re-enter the World, and initiate the Dagor Dagorath, the Battle of Battles. In this battle Morgoth himself would be slain by Túrin Turambar, returned to life or by Eönwë as written in The Hiding of Valinor. Thus the Children of Húrin and all Men will be avenged.
However, the published Silmarillion does not include this information, and instead asserts that, if the Valar know how the end of Arda will present itself, they have not revealed it.
The name Melkor is Quenya, meaning "One who arises in Might"; his name in Sindarin was Belegûr or Belegurth ("Great Death"). Tolkien wrote that he derived "Melkor" from malkū, which is an Akkadian word meaning "king", equivalent to Hebrew מלך ('mélekh').
The name Morgoth, given by Fëanor at Valmar after Melkor stole the Silmarils, meant "Dark Enemy", even though it was "Black Foe of the World" that Fëanor named him out loud. He was also known as Melkor Bauglir when he returned to Angband; bauglir meant "the Constrainer".
Melkor was the world's first Dark Lord, and sometimes gave himself titles such as King of the World, Elder King, and Master of the Fates of Arda (when speaking to Húrin). Sador called him "Black King", and Amlach "Master of Lies". Before his defeat in the War for Sake of the Elves, fearful Elves of Cuiviénen called Melkor the Dark Hunter. After his defeat in the War of Wrath, his servant Sauron called him "Lord of All and Giver of Freedom" and "Lord of the Dark" when trying to align the corrupted Númenóreans with him.
As shown in The Book of Lost Tales, Tolkien had named him Melko (most often), Belcha (from the Quenya velka meaning 'flame'), Ulban(d) ("monster"), Melegor, and Meleko, from the Primitive Quendian term melek, "great, mighty, powerful".
Material in The Lost Road and Other Writings refers to Melkor as Melko, Alkar, and Mardello.
His Old English name is once given, Manfréa Bolgen, from Old English words man ("evil, wickedness"), fréa ("lord"), and bolgen ("wrathful").
Melkor was initially the strongest being of Arda, second only to Eru Ilúvatar. In his prime, he spilled oceans and destroyed mountain ranges. While Eru had blessed the other Valar with a portion of his thoughts and insights, making each absolute in their respective specialties, Melkor was blessed with greater power and a wider breadth of knowledge. However, Melkor, while blessed with a large portion of Eru's knowledge, did not know all and never realized that the Secret Fire was a power to create that belonged solely to Eru.
Though tremendously powerful, able to alter or transform the world in many ways, Melkor could only twist or corrupt what already existed, not create anything new. In his desire to take control of all Arda, he dispersed his essense and power throughout the world to the point that Arda as a whole was corrupted and even after his banishment, his evil would continue to plague the world by corrupting men and making the gift of immortality unbearable for the Elves. The more he dispersed his power throughout Arda, the more control he had over it.
Even while greatly weakened, Melkor could create massive firestorms, huge craters, and curse his foes to sorrow and death (e.g. the family of Húrin), though, the diminishing of his power was to his disadvantage in times such as his struggle with Ungoliant.
Depiction of Melkor unmasked
Initially, Melkor could take on any form he chose. The Ainur took on forms reflective of their moods and might. Melkor, in his arrogance, malice and power, took on a form recorded as:
...a mountain that wades in the sea, and has its head above the clouds, and is clad with ice and crowned with smoke and fire, and the light of the eyes of Melkor was like a flame that withers with heat and pierces with a deadly cold.—The Silmarillion, Ainulindalë
It is said that out of all the Valar, Melkor was most like Aulë for his craftsmanship. Originally the brightest, most beautiful, most powerful Ainu, he fell through jealousy, pride and hatred of others, into Darkness with ever after a desire to conquer and to rule. When he built Utumno he took on a form shaped roughly manlike but great in size, "a Dark Lord, tall and terrible." This form was chained by the Valar. When he walked in Valinor he wore a much fairer form, so noble and lofty and benevolent not even the Elves (save only Fëanor and Galadriel) are recorded as seeing through it to the malice underneath. This he cast off to escape unclad from the hunt of the Valar, and when he faced Ungoliant he put back on the form of the tyrant of Utumno. In that form he remained ever after. As he spent his might and poured out his power into the very fabric of matter, as well as into all his creations, he grew more stooped and less majestic, and his hands were burned black from the touch of the Silmarils. His eyes shone with a daunting light.
There is some dispute over Morgoth's size. The Silmarillion states:
He stood over the king as a tower...and...cast a shadow over him like a storm cloud.—Quenta Silmarillion, "Of the Ruin of Beleriand and the Fall of Fingolfin"
As Elves typically reached about six feet tall, or close to seven feet for the Ñoldor, Morgoth must have stood at least twice this length, and with the shadow he robed himself in he may well have seemed taller. In most artistic renderings Morgoth is depicted as towering over other beings, most notably Elves (Fingolfin in particular) of the FA.
Morgoth set his foot upon his neck, and the weight of it was like a fallen hill.—Quenta Silmarillion, "Of the Ruin of Beleriand and the Fall of Fingolfin"
Initially, Melkor's power was so great that he could contend with all the other Valar and Maiar of Arda and beat them (ere Tulkas came). Over time however, his power was dispersed into the fabric of Arda and into his servants, lessening his might. At the time of his visit to Fëanor at Formenos, Melkor was still referred to as "the greatest being in Eä", though this was before his capture and final defeat by the Valar. It is unknown how much of his power he put into his various slaves after returning to Angband.
In terms of his personality, perhaps his most defining attribute was his overweening pride. From nearly the beginning of his existence, Melkor wished to have the power of creation, a power that only Eru Ilúvatar possessed. When he discovered that he would never be able to possess it, and that all that he could accomplish had, by definition, its utmost source in Ilúvatar himself, he began to descend into anger and bitterness. When Arda came into being, he desired lordship of it for the sake of his own self-aggrandizement rather than for the sake of ordering it according to the will of Ilúvatar. When he was denied it, he began to squander his gifts in wasteful and wanton destructiveness, using his vast power to ruin the works of the other Valar. He also envied anyone who possessed anything in greater quantity than himself, and that which he could not control, he grew eventually to hate.
He began with a desire for light, but when he could not possess it for himself alone, he turned instead to darkness. His power and knowledge, both of which were greater than all the other Valar, he perverted to manipulation and deception, and he became an absolute and consummate liar. Ever denied the lordship and worship he so coveted, he squandered his power in fashioning evil servants who would give him these things, dispersing himself, his power, and his malice into the very fabric of Arda.
Despite his overwhelming might, he was also known to be remarkably cowardly, reluctant to engage in battle himself even when victory was completely assured. Part of this was due to the fact that, alone of the Valar, he eventually became bound to a physical form which could be destroyed. He was possessed of virtually peerless cunning, and he was able to deceive and manipulate even the other Valar to the point where, after he was released from the Halls of Mandos, he was above the suspicion of all save Tulkas and Ulmo, and this was primarily because they were slow to forgive his past transgressions. Many of his most terrible deeds in Arda were achieved through treachery, manipulation, misdirection, and lies, and he seduced many Maiar to his service with false promises. However, as an utterly pitiless and merciless being, acts of compassion, mercy, or pity were entirely beyond his comprehension, and he seemed to have a serial tendency to underestimate the valor and capabilities of his foes.
In J.R.R. Tolkien's early concept of the Children of the Ainur, Melkor had a son Kosomot (later Gothmog) with an ogress, Fluithuin.
Nienna, the Vala of Mourning, was Manwë and Melkor's sister until Tolkien made her the sister of Námo and Irmo instead.
In other writings, it was said that Melkor wanted to claim the Maia Arien as his wife and ravished her, to "destroy and disdain her, not to beget any fiery offspring".
In some versions, Melkor will be defeated by Eönwë during the Dagor Dagorath, driven by his love for Arien, instead of by Túrin Turambar.
In The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, during the Attack on Dol Guldur, after Elrond and Saruman defeated the Nazgul, Sauron appears, reviving his servants, and predicted the fall of the West and the rise of Angmar, declaring the Elves' time is up and the Orcs' time has come. With his appearance, Galadriel arises in her spectral form with her phial, dueling Sauron in a battle of wills. One of the titles she taunted him with was "Servant of Morgoth", mocking him as bearing no name or face or form before casting him out, forcing him to retreat to Mordor.
In The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, when the Fellowship encounters goblins and Orcs in Moria after entering Balin's tomb, they eventually fight their adversaries for a long period of time, until a deep roar scatters them away, accompanied by a sprouting of fiery columns, as the Orcs and goblins flee. Eventually, as it comes nearer, Gandalf recognizes the creature as a Balrog of Morgoth from the Elder Days, a demon of the ancient world. Gandalf is immediately alarmed and tells his companions to frantically run, as this enemy's power was beyond their capacity to overcome. Legolas also describes it as such to Galadriel when speaking of the Wizard's demise.
Although not Morgoth himself, the design for Sauron (in particular, his armor) seen during flashbacks to the War of the Last Alliance was taken in part from the narrative description of Morgoth.
In the first episode of the The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power, Morgoth's shadow is briefly glimpsed in a flashback.
Melian "the Maia" was an Ainu of the race of the Maiar of Yavanna, wife of King Elu Thingol, Queen of Doriath, and mother of Lúthien Tinúviel. Melian was the fourth greatest and one of the most powerful of the Maiar. In Middle-earth, she was unsurpassed in both wisdom, beauty, and magical singing.
Before she came to Middle-earth, Melian served both Vána and Estë, and dwelt in Lórien tending the trees that grew in the Gardens of Irmo. Among all of her people none were wiser (with the exception of Ilmarë, Arien ,Olórin and Uinen), more beautiful, or more skilled in singing enchanting songs than Melian. She loved the deep shadows of the great trees. When the light of the Two Trees would mingle Melian would sing and the Valar would stop their work and listen. Nightingales went with her wherever she went, and she taught them their song. Of all the Valar she was most akin to Yavanna. When the Elves awoke on the shore of Cuiviénen she departed from Valinor and went to Middle-earth, where she filled its silence with her singing and the singing of her birds.
Melian encounters Elwë the woods of Nan Elmoth, by WilderWein77
While in the forest of Nan Elmoth she met and fell in love with the Elven-king Elu Thingol, and later she ruled the kingdom of Doriath by his side. For thousands of years, she used her powers to guard and defend the kingdom with a protection spell called the Girdle of Melian, but she predicted that one person would one day breach this defense. The Girdle functioned to bewilder any who attempted to enter Doriath, and was so potent that even Ungoliant was unable to breach it. She and her husband had a child, a daughter named Lúthien. During her stay in Doriath she became a friend and mentor of Galadriel. Melian wanted to know the cause of the exile of the Ñoldor. Galadriel only briefly narrated the story to her, leaving out the death of Finwë, the Kinslaying at Alqualondë, and the burning of the ships at Losgar. But eventually she and Thingol learned the truth.
Melian's main line of descent was of the Half-elven, and through her daughter the Maian blood passed to both Elves and Men. When Beren arrived as foretold, she counseled Thingol against sending Beren for a Silmaril, a quest which would eventually lead to Doriath's ruin. A friend of Mankind, she also aided Húrin's family by hosting Túrin in Doriath and later helped Beleg Cúthalion in his search for Túrin by giving him Lembas. When Húrin came to Doriath old and carrying a great grief and misery on him, Melian helped him see through his ills. After Thingol's death she left Doriath, visiting Beren and Lúthien for a time warning them of the Dwarves treachery, and the curse on the Mîm's treasure. Shortly there-after, she went back to Valinor, musing upon her sorrows in the gardens of Lórien whence she came.
Melian is a Sindarin name, from the Quenya Melyanna, of which the roots are mel (love) and anna (gift). The name means "dear gift." Earlier versions of Melian's name were Gwenniel or Gwenethlin. Her rare title-name, Tóril, meant "queen."
In some of J.R.R. Tolkien's earliest tales, Melian is a sprite or twilight spirit named Tindriel, then Wendelin, who served Palúrien. Tinwelint (later Thingol) finds her lonely in a glade of Hisilómë. She is Gwendeling or Gwenniel in "The Tale of Tinúviel" (written in 1917), found in the woods listening to the nightingales by Tinwelint, and running away when he first approaches her. This encounter foreshadowed Beren's first meeting of Lúthien, whom he would call "Nightingale", in the final versions of their own tale. Gwendeling marries Tinwelint later, and together they rule Artanor (later Doriath).
Tolkien once chose Tinfang to be Wendelin's son, but dropped the idea.
Gwendeling would be more powerful as Melian the Maia in later stages of Tolkien's mythology; the Maiar were not conceived of until some years after "The Tale of Tinúviel" was written.
Celebrimbor as a child with his parents in Valinor, by Marya Filatova
Celebrimbor was the son of Curufin, who was the fifth son of Fëanor (son of Finwë and his first wife Míriel) and Nerdanel. In the First Age, he fought in the battles of Dagor-nuin-Giliath and Dagor Aglareb. After fighting in the Dagor Bragollach and Battle of Aglon Pass he lived with his father and uncle in Nargothrond, staying even after Curufin's exile. After fighting in Nirnaeth Arnoediad, He fought in Sack of Nargothrond, and then escaped and traveled to Gondolin. He fought and survive the Fall of Gondolin. And finally fought in the War of Wrath.  Unlike some of his kin, he remained in Middle-earth afterwards.
Celebrimbor and Annatar forging the Rings
Celebrimbor settled in Eregion in the Second Age and started dealing with the Dwarves of the realm of Khazad-dûm. In SA 1500, Sauron, calling himself Annatar  ("Lord of Gifts"), befriended the Ñoldor of Eregion. He claimed to be an emissary of the Valar, especially Aulë, and instructed them in the art of ring-making. Celebrimbor distrusted him, but the smiths of Eregion were deceived. Under the guidance and instruction of Sauron, the smiths openly made rings to learn the craft and Celebrimbor himself forged the three Elven rings without assistance from Sauron. But unbeknownst to him, the craft taught by Sauron incorporated a binding magic into the rings.
In secret, Sauron forged the One Ring, a master ring that would rule all the lesser rings, to enable him to rule Middle-earth via its influence over those who used the other rings. When Sauron placed the One Ring on his finger, claiming dominance over all the Rings of Power and their bearers, the Elves knew his true identity and intentions. Celebrimbor and the Elves of Eregion defied Sauron by withholding the other rings from him. The greatest of the rings (aside from the One Ring) were created by Celebrimbor himself, and these were never touched by Sauron and thus were uncorrupted by him, although they were still subject to the One Ring. These were the three Rings of the Elves, the fairest of the Rings of Power. Celebrimbor named them Vilya, Narya, and Nenya after the principal Middle-earth elements of air, fire and water, respectively. He sent the three rings away for safekeeping: Vilya and Narya to Gil-galad in Lindon; and Nenya to Galadriel in Lórien. Celebrimbor also sent the mightiest of the seven to Durin III of Khazad-dûm.
Sauron retaliated by attacking Eregion, laying waste to the realm. Celebrimbor was captured in the chaos and was forced, under torture, to disclose the locations of the lesser rings, but he would not reveal the whereabouts of the three greatest of them that he had sent away for safekeeping. Celebrimbor died from his torment; his body was shot with arrows and hung upon a pole, and was later paraded as a banner when Sauron attacked the Grey Havens. He was the last direct descendant of the line of Fëanor, save perhaps for his father's brother Maglor, whose fate is unknown and is said by some legends to still wander the shores of the Sea. It is unknown whether he married, no children are recorded.
His father-name was Telperinquar, which means "Silver fist" or "Hand of silver" in Quenya. It comes from the words telpë ("silver") and quár ("fist"). His mother-name is untold. The name Celebrimbor is the Sindarin translation of his father name, of the roots celeb ("silver") and baur ("fist").
Unlike both his father and grandfather, Celebrimbor was selfless and kind, and neither prideful nor covetous of what he created. He was described to have an "almost Dwarvish obsession with crafts"; he became a famous artificer and smith in both Gondolin and Eregion. His love for crafts took him to Eregion, where he was introduced to a precious metal which he called mithril. Mithril was mined by Dwarves in nearby Khazad-dûm, later named Moria. Great friendship with the Dwarves of Moria developed, and skills and secrets were shared between Moria and Eregion for many years via the high road. But a long period of peace would not last, for upon realizing the trap which Sauron had devised for him, Celebrimbor was filled with anxiety and fear for his people, and was later described as the heroic defender of Eregion.
In early accounts, Celebrimbor was a Sindar Elf instead, an ancestor of the minstrel Daeron who used the Fëanorian script. Later, Celebrimbor was changed to a Ñoldo who had served Turgon in Gondolin and survived the Fall of Gondolin.
In Unfinished Tales, a statement claims Celebrimbor to be one of the Teleri who accompanied Celeborn to exile.
Another earlier version had Celebrimbor revolting against Galadriel after she and Celeborn established Eregion. Celebrimbor and Galadriel were later reconciled once Sauron's trickery was revealed.
Celebrimbor details his plans for a new forge
Celebrimbor is first seen introduced to Elrond by Gil-galad in Lindon; already a master artisan. Elrond accompanies Celebrimbor back to Ost-in-Edhil, in Eregion, where Celebrimbor shows him his grandfather Fëanor's hammer, and tells him of his own desire to create something truly significant. This requires a forge greater than any yet built; one which the Elves have not the ability to make. Elrond, because of his friendship with the Dwarf-prince Durin IV, volunteers to attempt forging an alliance between Eregion and Khazad-dûm. Celebrimbor walks with Elrond to Khazad-dûm's West-gate, but Elrond ventures in alone.
Elrond eventually is able to negotiate an agreement with Durin IV and his father, Durin III, and work on the proposed forge soon begins. Upon Elrond's return to Ost-in-Edhil, Celebrimbor remarks on Elrond's likeness to his father Eärendil, and how Eärendil once foresaw Celebrimbor's fate to lie in Elrond's hands one day. The two then realize that Durin IV has started to avoid them, and Elrond travels back to Khazad-dûm, where he learns that the dwarf-prince has discovered a new ore, which he calls mithril.
After a meeting arranged by Gil-galad in Lindon, Elrond allows Celebrimbor to examine a small fragment of mithril. Celebrimbor is enthralled by its beauty and resiliency, and expresses the belief that by mining vast quantities of it, the supposed remnant of light from a Silmaril contained in the metal could stave off the impending doom for Elves that Gil-galad and he have discovered.
Celebrimbor advised in ring-crafting by "Halbrand"
After Durin III refuses to mine for mithril, Elrond returns to Eregion and is resigned that the Elves must leave Middle-earth, though Celebrimbor still desires to try to use the small fragment Elrond had acquired. Galadriel unexpectedly arrives in Ost-in-Edhil with a wounded Halbrand, who, unbeknownst to the Elves, is Sauron in disguise. Sauron soon recovers and comes to Celebrimbor's forge, where he learns of mithril and makes critical suggestions on how to amplify its restorative properties. This catches Celebrimbor's attention, and soon Sauron has the Master-smith's trust as they attempt to forge a creation that will prevent the Elves from fading. Galadriel becomes suspicious when Celebrimbor repeats several phrases said by Adar to be from Sauron, and though she soon discovers Halbrand's true identity, she withholds this knowledge from Celebrimbor so that the forging can continue. At Galadriel's suggestion, Celebrimbor forges three rings instead of the initially proposed two, and is satisfied with his new creation.
Celebrimbor as portrayed in Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor
Celebrimbor appears in the video games Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor and Middle-earth: Shadow of War, as the wraith assisting the Ranger Talion in destroying the forces of Sauron. Here, he assists Talion due to the guilt he feels for creating the Rings of Power, thus feeling responsible for the trouble Middle-earth is in. However, the Celebrimbor that appears in the game differs from Tolkien's creation in that he not only makes the three Elf rings, but he crafts all of the Rings of Power, and when captured helps Sauron reforge the One Ring (via the inscription of the lettering of the Ring upon it) and assists him in creating the Nazgûl by accompanying Sauron to the men who eventually would become the Nine; he also gave the Ring a will of its own. However, once Sauron's intentions were revealed to him, he stole the One Ring and used it to command an army of Orcs and Uruks to fight Sauron and lay claim over Mordor. However, using the Ring, Celebrimbor is revealed to have developed a superiority complex and an insane obsession with taking everything from the dark lord for himself, so much so, that even Sauron himself could see the darkness within his heart, going so far as to believe that Sauron had already killed his family and was lying that he would spare them. In a final battle, Celebrimbor used the Ring's power to defeat Sauron. However the Ring wanted to return to the Dark Lord, and so it slipped off of Celebrimbor's finger and onto Sauron's, breaking Celebrimbor's control over his Orc army. Captured by Sauron, the elf was then tortured as punishment, such as witnessing his family tortured and killed in front of him, before finally being beaten to death with his own Mithril hammer by Sauron.
Celebrimbor's weapon in the game
When the game takes place and the protagonist, Talion, is slain in a blood-ritual, Celebrimbor is bound to the Ranger, which allows Talion to return from the dead (in addition to many other abilities). He has no memory of his past, not even remembering his own name until they find an artifact that belonged to him (with the assistance of Gollum,) and with each artifact they find more of his memory is restored. Gollum eventually abandons them, leaving them to find the last artifact in Udûn on their own. They also assist a low ranking captain named Ratbag advance through the ranks until he advances to Warchief, and kill all other warchiefs (leaving Ratbag in charge of all the Uruks in Udûn), which leads to his apparent demise after he is blamed for failing to prevent the destruction of a monument to Sauron by the Hammer of Sauron, a Black Captain and a lieutenant of the Black Hand of Sauron (the leader of the Uruks in Sauron's stead). Talion (and Celebrimbor) is approached by Lithariel, the daughter of Marwen, Queen of the Tribesmen of Núrnen, who claims her mother has summoned Talion to her chambers.
Celebrimbor, by Weta Workshop
Their job finished in Udûn, they make their way to Núrnen and have an audience with Queen Marwen (who looks similar to King Théoden when he was enchanted by Saruman), who gives them another artifact from Celebrimbor's past.
This artifact gives the wraith and his host their key to confronting the Black Hand: branding. They begin building their army by branding the captains and warchiefs of Núrnen (and optionally Udûn), thus enabling them to confront the Black Hand at his fortress of Ered Glamhoth, the strength of his forces depending on how many warchiefs and captains he branded. They return to the queen to tell her they are prepared to leave when suddenly the Queen begins forcing Celebrimbor out of Talion, saying that they can defeat Sauron "together." As Talion dies, he tells Lithariel, Marwen's daughter, to break the Queen's staff, and when it breaks, the Queen becomes youthful again, and reveals she went to the Istari Saruman for assistance in helping her people survive Sauron's onslaught. Celebrimbor suspects that Saruman may have gone rogue, and may be desiring the One for himself. Marwen nonetheless assists Talion by acquiring them a smuggler, which they use to go to the Black Hand's fortress.
When Talion enters the fortress, a skeleton bound to a pole by rope begins talking directly to Talion, and Celebrimbor reveals that the Tower of Sauron, another Black Captain and the Black Hand's right hand, is responsible for this, and thus is here in the Black Hand's stead. Talion approaches the Black Hand's throne, and as he looks for the Tower, the Black Captain appears in the throne, and reveals the Black Hand went looking for Talion. He addresses Celebrimbor directly, telling him Sauron forgives him and, if he casts off that "corpse" and becomes one with him, he will have his dreams fulfilled. Celebrimbor rebukes the Tower, saying that Talion and the wraith will never surrender.
Failing to deceive Celebrimbor, he reveals to Talion that the Ringmaker deceived Talion by pretending that the Black Hand of Sauron placed a curse on them, binding them together, where in reality Cerebrimbor chose Talion as his "host" and could have released him at any time. Talion insists that the Tower stand up and fight, to which the Tower obliges. He creates illusions of himself, forcing Talion to drain the illusions to sap the Tower of his power.
After the illusions are eliminated, Talion hears his wife Ioreth singing, and when he gets close to her, his wife is revealed as the Tower, who attempts to brand Talion. However, the Ranger overpowers him and brutally kills him, stabbing him with his son's dagger, Acharn, four times in the heart, before shoving his sword, Urfael, into the Tower's laughing mouth. After the Tower's death, Talion reveals his anger at Celebrimbor for his deceit, saying he wanted to be with his wife and son instead of being alone alive. Celebrimbor points out though that the Ranger wanted revenge, and thus he gave him the means to do so. The Ringmaker does admit that he can leave Talion, if he wants. Yet before they can part ways, the wraith says that they must finish what they started by killing their true target: the Black Hand. Talion reluctantly agrees, and the pair set sail for Núrnen once more.
However, they find the Queen's palace sacked, and blood on the throne. The queen's crown, however, was left, and when Talion picks it up, another set of Celebrimbor's memories are returned to him. They figure the Black Hand has them in Udûn, preparing an exchange for Celebrimbor for the Queen and her daughter. They arrive in the now-dark, ashed filled Udûn, where they find the Black Hand's elite guards standing watch for the duo. When the Talion arrives at the Black Gate riding a Caragor, his branded Uruks and warchiefs are already fighting the rank and file Uruks. Then finally, with a warchief and a set of captains, the Talons of the Black Hand reveal themselves, along with a host of rank and file Uruks. To Talion's sadness, The Talons reveal that they slaughtered all of the Núrnen tribesman, including Lithariel and Queen Marwen. After a brutal fight, the Talons are defeated, and the remaining branded Uruks that assisted Talion remain behind to fight the Black Hand's forces. Meanwhile, the Gravewalker climbs the Black Gate, and find the Black Hand waiting for him. Then quite subtly, the Black Captain lures the wraith duo in and unleashes a blast of energy that gives Celebrimbor more of his memories: his confrontation with Sauron in the fields of Udûn ending in failure, the return of Sauron's ring, and the brutal murders of Celebrimbor's family before his eyes, before being murdered himself. This gives Celebrimbor more power as a result. The Black Hand tells Celebrimbor that when he originally performed the blood ritual in an attempt to absorb his spirit into the Black Hand's corporeal form (thus reforming an avatar of Sauron, though he would not be at full strength), he gave him a choice: to stand by Sauron's side. He then tells the grave-walker duo that Talion and Celebrimbor have no choice in the matter, and surprisingly performs the blood ritual on himself, absorbing Celebrimbor into the Black Hand and forming the avatar of Sauron. Sauron tries to kill the already dying Talion, but as Sauron is about to deliver the finishing blow, Celebrimbor uses his energy to temporarily stun Sauron. This gives Talion the chance he needed to kill the avatar of Sauron, and thus the Black Hand, with his sword.
Talion relieved that he has finally exacted vengeance for his family, sees Celebrimbor waiting, ready to go to the afterlife together. Talion, however, insists that together they should use their powers to combat Sauron, because they both know as long as his Ring exists, he will return again, no matter in what form. Celebrimbor insists that fighting Sauron is mortally impossible, because he tried once long ago and it couldn't be done. Talion asks the Ringmaker if he could die knowing there was chance that they could defeat Sauron, but they didn't take it. Celebrimbor simply disappears, and doesn't answer. Talion, looking at Udûn's red sun, declares to himself and the wraith that it's time for them to forge new ring, as his eyes glow with the wraith's power.
The two then travel to Mount Doom, and proceed to forge a new ring. Upon its completion, Celebrimbor is separated from Talion by Shelob, and Talion takes the new ring to survive without the wraith. He later finds him in Shelob's Lair within Cirith Ungol, and gives her the new ring in exchange for Celebrimbor. The Elven wraith dislikes this exchange however, but Shelob's natural powers amplified by the ring prove to be too strong to fight, and thus the duo shifts their attention to a new target: the palantír in Minas Ithil.
After the city's eventual fall, Sauron sends 8 ringwraiths to force the new ring from Shelob. Realizing the danger that keeping the ring would cause to both her and to Middle-earth, she returns the ring to its forgers. The ranger and the wraith then proceed to Nurnen, where they use the ring's power to build an army and take over the region; Subsequently, they are betrayed by an ally in the process, only to exact revenge on him with utter cruelty. Of course, Celebrimbor's cruelty hints to Talion that the ring's power is starting to affect the elf's sanity.
Eventually, after conquering most of Sauron's domain, defeating a Balrog with the help of Carnan, a nature spirit, and finding out the identities of some of the Nazgul, the duo takes their army and march towards Barad-dûr, only to be stopped by one of the ringwraiths, Isildur. Upon his defeat, Talion decides to end the fallen hero's torment, and permanently kills him. However, Celebrimbor considers this an act of betrayal; he reveals that his plan has gone from simple revenge to tyranny, as he plans on brainwashing Sauron and ruling Middle-earth through him. As Talion objects to this plan, the wraith abandons the Ranger's body and takes over Eltariel's, leaving Talion to bleed to death.
As Talion picks up Isildur's ring, he becomes a ringwraith and decides to take back Minas Morgul, whilst Celebrimbor and his new host face Sauron. Eventually, Sauron, in his Annatar form, finds himself on his knees, and Celebrimbor begins to brand him. Sauron pulls out a blade and slices off Eltariel's fingers, just like Isildur had done to him centuries earlier. With Sauron now having the upper hand, he consumes the wraith, but with adverse effects; they both become the flaming eye of Sauron, locked into a battle of wills. The two fought until the One Ring was destroyed in the War of the Ring, wherein the Dark Lord Sauron was finally defeated.
However, Celebrimbor did not fade from Middle-earth as Sauron did, for, like Sauron, he had poured his own life force into his own ring. Thus, Celebrimbor was freed and the New Ring, now worn by the Elven assassin Eltariel, started expressing a desire to return to its creator...
Celebrimbor is voiced by Alastair Duncan.
Celebrimbor in The Lord of the Rings Online
In The Lord of the Rings Online, Celebrimbor appears in several flashback sequences, depicting his encounter with the "Lord of Gifts", the initial idea of creating the Rings of Power, and his final doomed stand during the Sack of Eregion.
Finarfin was a Ñoldorin Elf of Valinor.
He was said to be the fairest and wisest of Finwë's sons. Like all of Finwë's sons, Finarfin founded his own royal house. Uniquely among the Ñoldor, he and his descendants had golden hair inherited from his Vanyarin mother Indis, thus his house was sometimes called "The Golden House of Finarfin". Finarfin is regarded as one of the most powerful Elves in all of Arda.
Finarfin and Eärwen, by Līga Kļaviņa
Finarfin was the youngest child and third son of Finwë, High-King of the Ñoldor in Aman, with his second wife Indis of the Vanyar. His elder siblings were Findis, Fingolfin, and Írimë; his elder half-brother was the infamous Ñoldorin High-prince Fëanor, son of Finwë and his first wife Míriel. In YT 1280, Finarfin married Eärwen, the daughter of Olwë, King of the Teleri, which therefore made him related to Thingol, King of Doriath, Olwë's brother. Together, they had four (or five) children: Finrod Felagund, Orodreth (according to the published Silmarillion) Angrod, Aegnor, and an only daughter Galadriel who was the youngest child.
After the death of Finwë, Finarfin was there when Fëanor gave his wrathful speech before the Ñoldor of Tirion; listening to the hasty words, he tried in vain to persuade the Ñoldor to pause and not be rash. Nevertheless he departed with his brothers for Middle-earth. He turned back when Mandos pronounced the Doom of the Ñoldor. Finarfin and his people were pardoned by the Valar, and he became King of the residual Ñoldor in Aman and presumably still rules from Tirion on Túna.
Finarfin took part in the War of Wrath by leading the Ñoldorin-remnant from Aman. 
His father-name is Arafinwë, the "Noble-Finwë", from the Quenya ara ("noble, high, royal"). His amilessë (mother-name) is Ingoldo ("the Ñoldo").
An Old English translation for his name was Finred Felanop, in which "Felanop" means "very bold".
Through Galadriel, he is the grandfather of Lady Celebrían of Rivendell (wife of Elrond), and consequently, the great-grandfather of her three children Elladan and Elrohir, and Arwen Undómiel, future Queen of Gondor. 
In the early versions of the legendarium, Finarfin was referred as "Finrod" his son Finrod Felagund was "Inglor Felagund". As such, he appears in the first edition of The Lord of the Rings as Finrod. This was changed in later editions, but not all references to Inglor were removed. (See Gildor Inglorion)
There was an error to a character's name, wherein J.R.R. Tolkien changed Ingwiel son of Ingwë to Finarfin son of Finwë.
With Lúthien he fathered Dior Eluchîl, whose grandsons would be Elros Tar-Minyatur and Elrond Half-elven.
Beren was one of the Edain (Men), the son of Barahir and Emeldir the man-hearted. He was of the noble House of Bëor of Dorthonion and was the most accomplished hero and adventurer of the First Age. The battle of the Dagor Bragollach befell during his youth, bringing about the ruin of his people. The young Beren lived with his father and eleven loyal followers in the highlands of Dorthonion, and the thirteen of them performed many acts of bravery, to the great frustration of Morgoth, the Dark Lord of Angband.
The encounter of Beren and Lúthien by Marinela Mexi
After the ruin of the Outlaws of Dorthonion and the death of his father, Beren hunted the Orcs responsible, killing Gorgol and reclaiming the hand of his father and Ring of Barahir. After this he lived alone off the land in Dorthonion; he came to know the many birds and beasts that lived there, and they helped him when he had need. During this time, he hunted nothing and ate no meat and killed only the creatures of Morgoth that roamed the country. He learned not to fear death, only captivity and bondage; however, things began to grow more difficult for him, for Morgoth put an even greater price on his head and he was forced from the land of his birth by Sauron and Draugluin. He passed through the forests of Nan Dungortheb, then into Doriath, breaching the Girdle of Melian as prophesied, where he saw and fell in love with Lúthien, princess of the Sindar and daughter of Thingol and Melian.
Beren and Lúthien in the Court of Thingol, by DonatoArts
Thingol haughtily refused to give Lúthien's hand in marriage. He said that he would allow the marriage only if Beren brought back a Silmaril from the Iron Crown of Morgoth. The task was intended to be impossible, but Beren and Lúthien, with the aid of Finrod of Nargothrond and Huan the Great Hound, braved many perils (even besting Sauron, then Morgoth's most powerful lieutenant) and took a Silmaril. However, as they escaped from Angband, the great wolf Carcharoth, whom Morgoth had personally bred, awoke. Beren held out the Silmaril, hoping that its radiance would avert the beast, but he was mistaken. Carcharoth bit off his hand, swallowed it and the Silmaril (thus Beren was called Erchamion, One-hand), and proceeded to run rampant through Doriath. Lúthien and the unconscious Beren were rescued by the Eagles of Manwë. When he presented himself to Thingol, he demonstrated to him that he had obtained, then lost the Silmaril at the cost of one of his hands; he was then given the name Camlost, Empty-handed. Beren participated in the hunting of Carcharoth, where the beast was slain and the Silmaril recovered; the quest was accomplished, but in the process Beren was mortally wounded.
Beren being revived by Lúthien - by Justin Gerard
Lúthien's love for Beren was so strong that, upon hearing of his death, she lay down and died. Her soul went to the Halls of Mandos, where she managed to charm Mandos into granting her a wish. Both she and Beren were miraculously restored to life, but both of them would live as mortals and die the death of Men, and go beyond the walls of Arda to a place unknown. Thus Beren and Lúthien lived again, and dwelt on Tol Galen in the middle of the river Adurant in Ossiriand. There they stayed apart from other mortals; Beren was involved with the events of the First Age only one further time, when he waylaid a group of Dwarves who had sacked Menegroth and stolen the Nauglamír (and the Silmaril with it).
Lúthien bore Beren a son, named Dior, Thingol's heir, considered to be one of the fairest beings to ever live, for in him flowed the blood of Men, of Elves, and of the Ainur. Through his descendants, the blood of Beren and of Lúthien was preserved among the Eldar and the Edain.
Beren's deeds inspired all the peoples opposing Morgoth to unite themselves into a greater force to vanquish his power, resulting in the valiant but doomed Union of Maedhros. His romance and love for Lúthien Tinúviel and what he was willing to do to ensure it helped foster greater respect for men amongst the Elves.
The union of Beren and Lúthien was the first between a mortal Man and an Elven maid. His granddaughter Elwing married Earendil, son of Tuor and Idril, thus becoming the great-grandfather of Elrond and Elros, the first being one of the most influential figures of the Second and Third Age and the second the first King of Númenor. Her lineage passed down to the royal House of Elros of Númenor, and then to the House of Elendil, and on to the Kings of the Reunited Kingdom and beyond. Beren's romance with Lúthien is one of the great stories of the Elder Days, and it is mirrored by the later romance between their descendants Aragorn and Arwen Evenstar. According to legend, his line would never be broken as long as the world lasted.
As an outlaw in Dorthonion, Beren used the sword Dagmor and a bow to aid him in his journey. Later, he carried the knife Angrist, which he used to cut the Silmaril from Morgoth's crown.
In Ñoldorin, Beren means "bold".
His epithets, Erchamion ("one-handed") and Camlost ("empty-handed"), both contain the Sindarin word cam ("hand").
The story of Beren and Lúthien, though mentioned only briefly in The Lord of the Rings, was a central part of the legendarium. J.R.R. Tolkien once referred to it as "the kernel of the mythology" . He went on to say that it "arose from a small woodland glade filled with 'hemlocks', which he visited while serving in the Humber Garrison in 1918 (during World War I).
Tyr, a god of Norse Mythology, was a possible literary inspiration for Beren's loss of his hand to the wolf.
When Tolkien died in 1973, he was buried in Wolvercote Cemetery (North Oxford). The inscription on his gravestone reads:
The name of Lúthien also appears on the stone of his wife Edith:
In the earliest version of the legendarium, Beren was going to be human, but Tolkien erased over the original versions and wrote over much of the text. The details of the original version of the story are little known.
In the written draft, and published version Beren was changed to a Gnome (a Ñoldorin Elf), son of Egnor (which might have been an early name for Aegnor). According to Beren and Lúthien Egnor and Egnor (Aegnor) are two separate persons. It treats Barahir and Egnor bo-Rimion as two separate persons (there is no explanation given, other than his father changed concepts of Beren's race over time). But due to Christopher's plan to avoid too much editorial influence, he does not 'fix' or edit Beren's race to be consistent between different chapters of the story, but retains whatever race his father had used at the time of wring each section of the story for what he considers the 'continuous and standalone story' derived from all the sources.
Some of the artwork included in the book (all of which is drawn by Alan Lee) seems to reflect Beren's interchanging Elven ancestry - in particular the cover artwork, which appears to portray a scene from The Tale of Tinúviel with Beren, Lúthien, and Huan.
Túrin Turambar was a man of the House of Hador in Middle-earth, who became a tragic hero (or anti-hero) of the First Age, in the tale called Narn i Chîn Húrin ("The Tale of the Children of Húrin").
Túrin was the only son of Húrin Thalion, Lord of Dor-lómin, and Morwen Eledhwen. He had a younger sister Urwen, whom everyone called "Lalaith" because of her laughter. Urwen was loved more than Túrin, who did not speak often and seemed older than his years. However, she died in childhood of plague. Túrin became a close friend of Sador the one-legged carpenter, whom he named Labadal ("hop-a-foot"). On the morning of Túrin's eighth birthday, his father gave him an Elf-wrought knife, but he gave it to Sador.  After Húrin was captured in the Nírnaeth Arnoediad, Túrin remained with his mother Morwen, who hid him from the Easterlings that Morgoth had sent to Hithlum, fearing they would kill Túrin or enslave him. Unknown to Túrin at that time, Morgoth had placed a curse on all of Húrin's family.
When Túrin was eight years old, Morwen decided to send him to the Elven realm of Doriath. Before his departure, Sador offered him to give him his blade back, but he refused. After travelling to Doriath with Gethron and Grithnir, he was found by Beleg, who gave him, Gethron and Grithnir food, and adopted by Thingol as a son after meeting the Elf-maiden Nellas in the woods. After this, Túrin's second sister Niënor was born. Túrin was restless, and as soon as he was permitted he joined Beleg Cúthalion on the marches of Doriath, fighting the Orcs of Morgoth. It was in this time he received the Dragon-helm of Dor-lómin from Thingol. In his early battles his helm protected him from many injuries, as he was inexperienced in warfare. The helm was an heirloom of the House of Hador and because of it the Orcs feared him above all others.
Túrin, by Alan Lee, wearing the Dragon-helm of Dor-lómin, as seen on the cover of The Children of Húrin (2007)
Túrin accidentally caused the death of Saeros, one of Thingol's counsellors who provoked and attacked him. Before he could be either punished or forgiven, he fled, eventually encountering a band of outlaws that dwelt south of Brethil. There he identified himself only as Neithan (the wronged). The men of the band realized he was by far the most skilled of the group so they spoke not out against him. After seeing him terrorize an innocent woman, Túrin killed their leader, and became their leader in his place. During his rule, he stopped the outlaws from raiding houses of free folk, and only hunted Orcs.
In the meantime, Beleg Cúthalion obtained leave from Thingol to seek out his friend. In FA 487, Beleg found Túrin's outlaws at the outskirts of Amon Rûdh and was held and tied up by them until Túrin returned. Andróg, who was a prominent member of the group, mistrusted Beleg even after Túrin declared him a friend and begrudged him Túrin`s friendship. Beleg tried to persuade Túrin to return to Doriath, for the king held that he was innocent. When Beleg could not persuade his friend to leave the outlaws, he left to return to Doriath. Túrin's band later captured Mîm the Petty-dwarf while Beleg and Túrin were parted. Mîm was forced to share his halls on Amon Rûdh with his company while Túrin promised to repay Mîm for the accidental death of his son Khîm.
At Doriath, Beleg asked to be able to join his friend. Thingol allowed this and also gave him the sword Anglachel, and Thingol's wife Melian gave him Lembas. Beleg returned to Túrin that winter, healing those of the band that had become sick with cold. Beleg brought with him the Dragon-helm, after Túrin agreed to take the Dragon-helm, the area around Amon Rûdh became known as Dor-Cúarthol, "The Land of Bow and Helm" (since Beleg was known as a mighty bowman). There Túrin took the name Gorthol, "The Dread Helm". Many warriors joined them, and much of the west of Beleriand was freed from evil for a while. Mîm, however, was greatly jealous of Beleg's friendship with Túrin.
The death of Beleg, by Elena Kukanova
Eventually, Túrin was betrayed by Mîm the dwarf. He allowed a pack of Orcs to have information with which they could destroy the company, as long as he was allowed to kill Beleg himself. Túrin was captured at the top of Amon Rûdh and all his men were slain about him. Beleg was saved by Androg who killed Mím with his last action before dying. Beleg then rescued Túrin from the Orcs in Taur-nu-Fuin with the help of Gwindor, an escaped slave of Morgoth, but Túrin accidentally killed Beleg with the sword Anglachel, for Beleg, who was trying to cut Túrin's bonds, was mistaken by Túrin as one of the Orcs tormenting him. Gwindor and Túrin then fled the others, and as Túrin's mind was lost in a silent sadness, Gwindor led him to the Pools of Ivrin, where Túrin then cried and his madness was cured.
The Dragon of Dor-lomin
Gwindor then led Túrin to Nargothrond, where once he had lived. In Nargothrond, Túrin hid his name, calling himself by the alias Agarwaen son of Úmarth (Sindarin for "Bloodstained son of Ill-fate"), while hoping to hide his identity and escape Morgoth's curse upon his kin. He had Anglachel re-forged and named it Gurthang, "Iron of Death". Finduilas, daughter of Orodreth, fell in love with him, but he avoided her because she had previously been the beloved of his friend Gwindor. Túrin declined to tell her his name, so that she called him Thurin (the secret). He was also called Adanedhel (Man-Elf) because he was so like an elf, though he was human. Gwindor later revealed Túrin's true identity to Finduilas when anger and sadness over took him and it eventually reached Finduilas' father, King Orodreth.
The revelation of his identity resulted in Túrin becoming a chief counsellor of Orodreth, and was extremely influential in Nargothrond. He encouraged the Nargothrondrim to abandon their practice of secrecy, and they built a great bridge before the gates. Because of his prowess with Gurthang, he himself became known as the Mormegil (Black Sword), or the Black Sword of Nargothrond. In FA 495, with Orodreth now deep in the council of Túrin, the Elves of Nargothrond marched out from their secret city with an army of some thousands of Elves to confront the enemy massing beneath the Ered Wethrin (Mountains of Shadow) and in the Pass of Sirion. They were overwhelmed and driven into the Plain of Tumhalad and utterly defeated in the Battle of Tumhalad. Only Túrin, who wore the Dragon Helm of Dor-lómin was able to survive the hot fiery blasts of Glaurung and escaped. There was a desperate attempt to destroy the bridge Túrin has ordered to be built for swifter actions of the army, alas it was too well made and the enemy arrived and Glaurung the father of dragons destroyed the gate and the sacking of the once mighty Nargothrond, began.
Túrin and Níniel in Brethil, by Gustavo Malek
Túrin was caught by the powerful gaze of Glaurung at the smashed gate of the city, and stood by idly as Finduilas and hundreds of captives was dragged away, Finduilas called to him, once her cries were drowned out in the distance, Túrin was released from Glaurung's spell, which deceived Túrin into believing Morwen and Niënor were suffering in Dor-lómin, and Túrin abandoned Finduilas to seek out his kin. In actuality, Morwen and Niënor were safely in Doriath, as Túrin's own efforts had made the way passable.
"Túrin the Silent", by Jay Johnstone
Once in Dor-lómin, Túrin found his old home empty. He went to the halls of the Easterling lord Brodda, who had taken Húrin's kinswoman Aerin as a wife and many a time beaten her and enslaved Túrin's people, Brodda had also taken Húrin's lands and possessions to which also rightfully belonged to Túrin. From Aerin, Túrin learned that Morwen had left, and in his rage, he held Brodda up like a dog and threw him in a group of men, breaking Brodda’s neck and killing him, thereby also sealing Aerin's fate. As Túrin left again, Aerin burnt herself alive in Brodda's halls, and the remainder of the House of Hador now was persecuted even more cruelly. There he also met Sador once again before he died, adding to the list of people whose lives his rash actions had ended.
Túrin next tried to find Finduilas, but when he had picked up the Orcs' trail, woodsmen of Brethil informed him she had been killed as they had tried to rescue the prisoners of Nargothrond. Túrin collapsed on the mound she was buried in, and was brought to Brethil.
In Brethil, Túrin renamed himself Turambar (Master of Doom) in an act of bravado, deciding that his curse was finally over. One night in the middle of a fierce storm he and his men found a naked young woman on Finduilas's grave, and called her Níniel "Maiden of tears" due to her crying, for she knew nothing. Túrin years later took her as his wife. Túrin did not know that this was indeed his sister, whose memory had been erased by Glaurung. Brandir, out of jealousy or forecast, told Níniel that a shadow was cast above Túrin, and that instead of being Master of Shadow, the Shadow would inevitably master him.
Glaurung's death
Túrin's happiness ended when Glaurung came near Brethil, burning miles and miles of forest so that he could reach where the woodsmen lived. Túrin with two others set out to kill the dragon, but he was the only one to reach the drake. Dorlas, being too cowardly, abandoned Túrin, but Hunthor the faithful went on. As Túrin passed underneath the dragon, he nearly toppled into the waters due to the dragon's stench had it not been for Hunthor, who steadied him. Unfortunately, as a result of this action, a stone moved by Glaurang's passing hit Hunthor on the head, and he fell into the ravine. With his black sword and bitterness in his heart, Túrin then stabbed the dragon's belly with all his hatred and power; killing Glaurung at Cabed-en-Aras, but as he retrieved his sword the foul blood of the Dragon fell on his hand and he was hurt and fell in a swoon. As Níniel came to search for him, Glaurung with his last words revealed to her that she was Turin's sister. Horrified, and believing Túrin dead, Niënor Níniel killed herself by leaping into the ravines of the river.
Níniel finds Túrin after the slaying of Glaurung, thinking he is dead - by Vigshane
When Túrin awoke he was told by Brandir the Lame, lord of the Haladin of Brethil what had happened. In anger, he killed Brandir in front of many people, refusing to believe the truth. When he learned from Mablung of Doriath, who had come to seek him, that Brandir was telling truth and that he had wrongfully slain him, Túrin could no longer live with the pains and misfortunes of his life and determined to commit suicide. Just before his death, he revealed that he had been 'blind'; Morgoth's curse had had him groping in the dark since childhood.
Then, Túrin said to Gurthang: "Hail Gurthang, iron of death, thou alone now remainest! But what lord or loyalty dost thou know, save the hand that wieldeth thee? From no blood wilt thou shrink! Wilt thou take Tùrin Turambar? Wilt thou slay me swiftly?"
Túrin kneeling at Cabed Naeramarth, in dialogue with his sword - by Ted Nasmith
And from the blade rang a cold voice in answer: "Yea, I will drink thy blood, that may I forget the blood of Beleg my master, and the blood of Brandir slain unjustly. I will slay thee swiftly." Then Tùrin set the hilts upon the ground, and cast himself upon the point of Gurthang, and the black blade took his life. Túrin and several of the others connected to his story are some of the few people in the Middle-earth legendarium to have committed suicide.
An alternate interpretation of Túrin's revelation mirrors that of his father's in the Silmarillion, that all that he had seen was twisted by the malice and might of Morgoth, and so as if blind, he stumbled through life.
Túrin was buried near Finduilas' grave, in a high mound where he had fallen, and the shards of Gurthang were set beside him.
'And thereon the Elves carved in the Runes of Doriath:
TÚRIN TURAMBAR DAGNIR GLAURUNGA
(Túrin, Master of Fate, Slayer of Glaurung).
and beneath they wrote also:
NIËNOR NÍNIEL
After Húrin, Túrin's father, was released from Angband, he and his wife Morwen met at the gravesite of their children for the first and last time, and Morwen died when the sun set holding Húrin's hand and was also buried there. The mound they were buried beneath survived the War of Wrath and Tol Morwen was the westernmost isle off the coast of Lindon in the Second and Third Ages.
Whether the tragedies in Túrin's life were the result of Morgoth's curse or of his own arrogance, or some combination of the two, are a subject of some debate among fans and scholars.
The second prophecy of Mandos (later removed from The Silmarillion by Christopher Tolkien) states that at the End of Time, Morgoth would wage a final battle against the Valar, the Final Battle, and that Túrin Turambar reincarnated would plunge Gurthang into Morgoth's heart and defeat him once and for all, exterminating evil forever, and avenging the Children of Húrin.
At the same time, according to the in first age human seer and wise woman Andreth, before Turin left the world's circles, he will return at the war of wrath. And in this war he will fight against the forces of Morgoth and kill the dragon Ancalagon.
The supposed resemblance of Túrin to figures from medieval tales can be confirmed by part of a letter Tolkien wrote to Milton Waldman, a publisher, concerning the publication of his works.
The name Túrin means "he who desires mastery", from the Sindarin words tûr ("power, mastery, lord") and ind (desire, heart"). In Quenya, his name becomes Turindo, from tur ("master") and indo ("mood").
Turambar means "Master of Doom", from the Quenya tur ("master") and ambar ("doom").
An inspiration for Túrin had been Kullervo, from a Finnish mythological tale that Tolkien once retold, in The Story of Kullervo.
Túrin also resembles Sigmund, the father of Sigurd in the Old Norse Volsung saga, in the incestuous relationship he has with his sister, which parallels the marriage of Túrin and Nienor. In Richard Wagner's opera Die Walküre (also drawn in part from the Volsung myths), Siegmund and Sieglinde are parallels of Túrin and Nienor (one interesting resemblance of Túrin to Siegmund is that in the first act of Die Walkure, Siegmund tells Hunding is name is Wehwalt (woeful), just as Túrin tells the Elves of Nargothrond his name is Agarwaen (blood-stained).) Kullervo in Kalevala also lost his family in a war. Later on he finds his family members again. He seduces his sister and afterwards the sister jumps into a river, like Nienor in Teiglin. Afterwards, he commits suicide exactly like Túrin did. Kullervo asks for his sword to kill him, and the sword replies just as Gurthang did. Then Kullervo throws himself onto the sword and dies.
Lisa Coutras offers an explanation of philosophical and theological meanings behind Túrin's suicide, in Tolkien's Theology of Beauty (2016).
Manwë (Quenya; IPA: [ˈmanʷe] - "Blessed One") was the leader of the Ainur, one of the Aratar, King of the Valar, husband of Varda, brother of the Dark Lord Melkor, and King of Arda. He was also known as Súlimo, Mânawenûz or Valahiru, and lived atop Mount Taniquetil in Valinor, the highest mountain of the world. The winds and airs were his servants.
He was the greatest in authority and power, of all the Valar, Melkor being just as powerful, but having no authority because of his treason. He was, however, the greatest of the Aratar, among whom Melkor was not. It is said that he was the only Vala who took council from Eru from time to time.
Depiction of his earliest form
Manwë was (with Melkor) the eldest of the Ainur, and the one that best understood the will of Eru. When Melkor created the discord in the Music of the Ainur, the Second Theme of Eru that rose to counter the discord used Manwë as its chief instrument. When Arda was formed, Manwë was appointed Ruler of Arda, hence his most common title, the Elder King (although Melkor also referred to himself by this title). Manwë was a kind, compassionate ruler, unconcerned with his own power. He oversaw all of the Valar's early attempts to order Arda, but was unable to stop Melkor's rampages until the Vala Tulkas came to Arda to assist his brethren.
Afterwards, the Valar under Manwë made an abode on Middle-earth in the Isle of Almaren and constructed the two Lamps of the Valar to provide light to the world. But Melkor destroyed the lamps, and the Valar retreated to the continent of Aman, which they heavily fortified. Eventually, the Elves awoke in Middle-earth, and Manwë at last went with the other Valar to subdue Melkor. They succeeded, and Melkor was imprisoned in the Halls of Mandos. He extended an invitation to the Elves to journey to Aman and live there amongst the Valar. For the three Ages of Melkor's imprisonment, the Valar and the Elves lived in peace and happiness. But eventually Melkor was allowed to plead for pardon before Manwë again.
As Manwë was completely free of evil, he was unable to comprehend it, leading him to believe Melkor's lies concerning his reformation. He released Melkor from Mandos, whereupon Melkor began plotting the downfall of the Elves and the ruin of Aman's bliss. He began to cleverly spread lies amongst the Ñoldor, who soon grew to resent the Valar because of said lies. Eventually, due to the rebellious actions of the Ñoldorin prince Fëanor, Melkor's lies were uncovered, but he escaped before he could be recaptured. Soon thereafter, Melkor recruited the great spider Ungoliant and poisoned the Two Trees. He then murdered the High King of the Ñoldor, Finwë, stole the Silmarils, and incited Fëanor's leaving Aman with most of the Ñoldor in rebellion.
Soon thereafter, Manwë learned that the rebellious Ñoldor had attacked and slaughtered many of the Teleri. As such, he forbade the Ñoldor from returning to Valinor once they left, and stated also that the Elves would receive no help from the Valar in their war against Morgoth. He then caused Valinor to be hidden by way of the Shadowy Seas and the Enchanted Isles to prevent the Ñoldor from returning.
To hearten the Eldar, he had Aulë fashion the Sun and the Moon, for he knew the rising of the Atani was coming soon, and sent Thorondor and the Eagles to watch them. After Morgoth's fall, Manwë cast him into the void. Manwë dressed in blue robes and had blue eyes. He wielded a scepter of sapphire made for him by the Ñoldor. The Vanyar were his favorite Elves, and they lived with him and Varda on Mount Taniquetil.
The name Manwë means "blessed one" or "blessed person", from the Quenya man ("blessed") and wë ("person").
Súlimo literally means "the Breather", from the Quenya súlimë ("wind") and Sindarin sûl ("wind").
His Sindarin name was Aran Einior, the "Elder King".
In earlier versions of the legendarium Manwë and Varda were called with the title of Wanwavoisi and they were conceived as the parents of Eonwë (called Fionwë Úrion) and Ilmarë (called Erinti). Tolkien later abandoned this idea of the Children of the Valar.
This category is for the Kings of Arda.
All items (32)
Hearing of the power of Thingol, Denethor led many of his people over the Blue Mountains to Beleriand. They settled in Ossiriand, renaming it Lindon, in the east of Beleriand, and Denethor became their king. They were called the Laiquendi, or Green-elves. Some time later after his return from Aman, Morgoth loosed an army on Beleriand beginning the First Battle. The lightly-armed Laiquendi were driven back to the great hill of Amon Ereb, where Denethor was slain. The Laiquendi became a reclusive people, seldom taking up arms, and never again naming a king.
The name Denethor comes from the Nandorin words dene ("strong, lithe") and thara ("tall, slender"), and gives the name a meaning of "Lithe and lank".
Thorondor (Sindarin; IPA: "Eagle Lord") was the King of the Eagles of Middle-earth during the First Age.
Thorondor and Fingon rescue Maedhros
Thorondor was sent by Manwë, King of the Valar, to watch over the Ñoldor after they arrived in Beleriand. The Eldar first encountered him when he helped Fingon rescue Maedhros from imprisonment from Thangorodrim, upon which he had apparently made his home for a short time. Later, Thorondor and the rest of the Great Eagles settled in the Crissaegrim. When Gondolin was built, Thorondor became the ever vigilant guardian of the city. He rescued Fingolfin's body from defilement after Morgoth killed him, giving the Dark Lord a scar on his face. He, Landroval, and Gwaihir rescued Beren and Lúthien when Angband was aroused.
When Gondolin fell, Thorondor rescued the survivors. During the War of Wrath, Thorondor and Eärendil led the Eagles in battle with the Dragons, and may have fought with Ancalagon the Black.
In Tolkien's writings, Thorondor is not mentioned after the War of Wrath. It is believed he returned to Valinor, although his descendants remained behind. Gwaihir became the Lord of Eagles in Middle-earth after Thorondor's departure.[citation needed]
Two of Thorondor's kin, as depicted in The Hobbit films
Thorondor was presumably the greatest of all the Eagles in terms of size, with his wingspan measuring at 30 fathoms (180 feet or nearly 55 meters).
The name Thorondor was Sindarin for "Eagle Lord", from the words thoron ("eagle") and taur ("lord, king"). The Quenya form of the same was Sorontar.
The King of the Dead, originally "King of the Mountains", was king of the Dead Men of the Mountains in Dwimorberg, and before that had been a living Man. His spirit resided along with that of his kin in the Paths of the Dead.
In the later years of the Second Age, he and his men also served and worshiped Sauron, until he and his army swore allegiance to the realm of Gondor upon the Stone of Erech. Isildur was the King of Gondor at that time. The King of the Dead made an oath to fight on Isildur's side when needed, but when that moment of need arrived in the War of the Last Alliance he did not come. Isildur cursed the King of the Dead and his army. As a result, the King of the Dead and his followers could not rest until his oath was fulfilled.
The King of the Dead in the films, portrayed by Paul Norell
In the late Third Age, the king and his army joined with Aragorn and the Grey Company during the War of the Ring, after Aragorn passed through Dwimorberg and summoned them at the Stone of Erech. The Army of the Dead then followed Aragorn to Pelargir, where they defeated the Corsairs of Umbar. Aragorn, as Heir of Isildur, subsequently declared the oath of the Army of the Dead as fulfilled. Upon hearing this, the king broke his spear and threw it aside then bowed to Aragorn, turned away, and with the rest of his people "vanished like a mist that is driven back by a sudden wind," never to be seen again.
The way is...shut. It was made by those who are dead...and the dead keep it. The way is shut.—The King of the Dead
In The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, several details are changed from the book. This king first appears to Aragorn as a quick vision when he is looking at the Dimholt road. He later manifests to Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli when they are taking the Paths of the Dead. He spars briefly with Aragorn, resisting Aragorn's authority at first but later agreeing to fight. The king and his army attack the Corsairs, preventing them from entering Gondor, after which they accompany Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli to Minas Tirith. To complete the oath he helped defend Minas Tirith when it was under attack by an army of Orcs and Trolls and their leader the Witch-king of Angmar. After the battle the curse was broken by Aragorn, putting the Oathbreakers at rest.
In the console versions of The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King video game (for instance, the PlayStation 2 version), he is the first boss on Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli's path. Other than wielding a large sword, he uses sorcery to create blasts of wind called "Wind of the Mountain", and chants spells to summon his undead army including undead archers and swordsmen. If one listens closely, it appears and sounds as if he is reciting part of the first line of the inscription on the One Ring, specifically "Ash nazg durbatulûk". He was voiced by Jairon Monroe.
The King of the Dead appears as a non-playable character in The Lord of the Rings: Aragorn's Quest.  In the Wii and PS3 versions, he appears in the penultimate story level and is fought as an optional boss in the Shire overworld, after that level is completed.  This optional boss fight is the culmination of a particular Side Quest where Frodo Gamgee goes into Mushroom Woods to re-enact Aragorn's journey into the Path of the Dead to recruit the Armies of the Dead, fighting him and his men along the way to convince them to join him to save Minas Tirith.
In The Lord of the Rings Online, the King of the Dead is named Rioc. Although his men were unwilling to fight Sauron because they had worshiped him, his excuse for not honoring the oath given to Isildur was because his daughter Bravantel had an out-of-wedlock child with one of his Númenórean warriors. He leads his people after joining Aragorn's host and is freed after the liberation of Pelargir.
In The Third Age: Total War (Medieval II Total War modification) submod DCI: Last Alliance, the King of the Dead is named Zarazir. His faction, the Men of the Mountains, can either join in an alliance with Islidur's or Sauron's factions, or can go their own route and conquer both the Númenóreans and Mordor.
In LEGO The Lord of the Rings: The Video Game, the King of the Dead is a boss that the players have to fight in the Paths of the dead story mission.
This category is for the Kings of Gondor.
All items (42)
This category lists the Kings of Arnor.
All items (20)
The category is for the Kings of Rohan.
All items (21)
His realm was probably close in proximity to the Lonely Mountain, for in the last days of the Quest of Erebor, Thorin and Balin were said to wonder if Bladorthin's order was still intact:
"The spears made for the armies of the great King Bladorthin (long since dead), each had a thrice-forged head and their shafts were inlaid with cunning gold, but they were never delivered or paid for."
Therefore Bladorthin may have ruled either Lake-town, Dale, Rhûn, Dorwinion, or another location. The coming of Smaug or Bladorthin's own death may have been the reason for the spears' delayed delivery.
The name's origin is untold, but it possibly combines the Sindarin words blador, meaning "wide plain", and thin, meaning "grey".
In the first draft of The Hobbit, the name Bladorthin was given to Gandalf's character. In the final copy, however, the name only survives in this way.
All items (13)
The members of the Fellowship of the Ring (including all of the members of the Nine Walkers, and The members of the Fellowship's reinforcements led by Berethor, Commander of the Soldiers of  Minas Tirith.
All items (10)
For all characters who only appear as young children or youths.
All items (3)
This category is for all the Queens of Arda
All items (13)
This category is for adaptations and related matters.
All items (17)
Fellowship»
Tolkien is a biographical drama about the early life of J.R.R. Tolkien, released in May 2019, by Chernin Entertainment and Fox Searchlight Pictures. It is directed by Finnish filmmaker Dome Karukoski, with a screenplay by Stephen Beresford and David Gleeson. English actor Nicholas Hoult portrays Tolkien in his early twenties, with Lily Collins as Tolkien's future wife, Edith.
The rumor of an upcoming Tolkien biopic surfaced in November 2013. Filming itself began in October 2017, in Liverpool, England, and its first trailer was released by TheOneRing.net in February 2019.
In the UK, Tolkien was released on May 3. In the United States, a limited release came May 7, and the final wide release on May 10.
The film portrays some of J.R.R. Tolkien's childhood, the start of his love-life with Edith Bratt, his experiences in the First World War in 1916, and the forming of his interests in philology and fantasy conception. It features Tolkien's school-mates at King Edward's school that formed with him the "T.C.B.S." social club before the war, such as Robert Quilter Gilson and Christopher Wiseman.
A dragon, a Balrog's face, and vague battle scenes from the First Age of Middle-earth are shown as a few of Tolkien's visions during his weeks of combat in the Somme Offensive.
Tolkien earned a total of $2.9 million worldwide in its opening weekend, finishing ninth in the box office. In total, the film earned over $9 million worldwide.
It currently holds a rating of 51% on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, based on 198 reviews as of January 23, 2022.
Tolkien (2019) - Trailer no. 1
Tolkien (2019) - Trailer no. 2
Tolkien (2019) "Off to War" clip
Tolkien (2019) Cast and Director pre-release interview
The Lord of the Rings film trilogy is comprised of three live action fantasy epic films; The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001), The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002) and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003). For simplicity, the titles are sometimes abbreviated to 'LOTR', with 'FotR', 'TTT', and 'RotK' for each of the respective films.
Set in Middle-earth, the three films follow the young Hobbit Frodo Baggins as he and the Fellowship embark on a quest to destroy the One Ring, to ensure the destruction of the Dark Lord Sauron. But the Fellowship breaks, and Frodo continues the quest together with his loyal companion Sam and the treacherous Gollum. Meanwhile the wizard Gandalf and Aragorn, heir in exile to the throne of Gondor, unite and rally the Free Peoples of Middle-earth in several battles culminating in the War of the Ring.
The movies were directed by Peter Jackson and released by New Line Cinema. The trilogy is based on the book The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien and follows its general storyline, despite some deviations. Considered to be one of the biggest movie projects ever undertaken with an overall budget of $280 million, the entire project took eight years, with the filming for all three films done simultaneously and entirely in Jackson's native New Zealand.
The trilogy was among the highest-grossing films of all time, unadjusted for inflation. They are critically acclaimed, winning 17 Academy Awards in total, as well as wide praise for the cast and innovative practical and digital special effects. Each film in the trilogy also had Special Extended Editions, released a year after the theatrical release on DVD.
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring movie poster (2001)
Ever since the publication of The Hobbit in 1937, there was an interest in turning Tolkien's fantasy novels into film. In 1939, Walt Disney considered incorporating it into Fantasia, and he and his company continued to have an interest in the books until the 1970s. Tolkien and his publishers rejected several amateur suggestions to have the books adapted to film, and in one instance Tolkien criticized a screen treatment prepared by Morton Grady Zimmerman. He eventually leased the rights to The Hobbit to Rembrandt Films to make an animated film, but by 1967 they had only made a short which was viewed by twelve people.
By now, Tolkien was in conversations with Bernie-Katzka Productions and United Artists for the rights to The Lord of the Rings and "an option on The Hobbit". Peter Shaffer was commissioned to write a script for a three-hour film, which was deemed "elegant" but was never made. At this time, Denis O'Dell, a producer working for the Beatles, expressed interest in making a "musical multimedia extraveganza" starring the band members. He had considered Richard Lester to direct, but instead tipped David Lean. With Lean busy on Ryan's Daughter, it passed to Stanley Kubrick (who deemed it "unfilmable") and Michaelangelo Antonioni, to no avail.
In 1969, with the full rights now in their disposal, UA commissioned John Boorman to write a new script, but by the time he completed his rough draft in 1970, it was deemed too costly. In 1972, Arthur Rankin used a loophole in the US publication of the books (which made them public domain) to create an animated TV special based on The Hobbit (1977), and a sequel based on the closing chapters of The Return of the King (1980).
In 1974, Ralph Bakshi began negotiating to make it as a series of animated films, eventually teaming with producer Saul Zaentz to buy the rights in 1976. The first part was released in 1978 and its modest financial success eventually led to the sequel's cancelation. Nevertheless, other filmmakers like George Lucas are said to have had an interest in adapting The Hobbit, but were rejected by Zaentz, and instead the 1980s were occupied by Tolkien-esque original fantasy films like Excalibur and Willow, none of which were particularly well received.
At the time that Bakshi's film aired, a teenager Peter Jackson hadn't read the book, but "heard the name", and went to see the film: "I liked the early part – it had some quaint sequences in Hobbiton, a creepy encounter with the Black Rider on the road, and a few quite good battle scenes – but then, about half way through, the storytelling became very disjointed and disorientating and I really didn't understand what was going on. However, what it did do was to make me want to read the book – if only to find out what happened!"
Afterwards, he read a tie-in edition of the book during a twelve-hour train journey from Wellington to Auckland, thinking it would make for a great live-action film. While he always wanted to make fantasy films, he did not believe he could ever make The Lord of the Rings. He hadn't reread the book or rewatched the Bakshi film in the following years, but he had found out about previous attempts to adapt the book; although he didn't see the Rankin/Bass TV specials. He also listened to the BBC Radio adaptation and watched "all the fantasy films" of the period, noting that while "some movies have been okay", many of them "have been pretty blatantly ‘Middle-earthish’" and "B-grade." He started work on an original fantasy film in the early 1980s, but quickly abandoned it in favour of the horror-comedy Bad Taste.
In September 1995, Jackson was finishing The Frighteners and considered making a "Lord of the Rings-type" original fantasy film that would be relatively serious and feel "real". Weeks of conversation with partner Fran Walsh came to naught when they realized all their ideas were too close to The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. Wondering "why nobody else seemed to be doing anything about it", Jackson had his agent Ken Kamins search-out the rights, which they traced to producer Saul Zaentz, who was said to have dismissed several proposals to adapt the books to live-action. In fact, in 1993 Zaentz had declined an offer to make "two or three live-action films, or an epic TV series" from a group of European producers.
Jackson was on a first-look deal with Miramax Films (deferred for work on The Frighteners), and while his contractual obligation to present the project to CEO Harvey Weinstein was unclear, he decided to approach Harvey nonetheless. Fortunately, Weinstein had just rescued Zaentz' production of The English Patient and managed to enter negotiations with the producer for the rights. Jackson had originally wanted to make The Lord of the Rings, but Walsh told him they should start with The Hobbit, which he hadn't read. He set to reading it, while making the tentative offer to Miramax to make a trilogy: he would make a film adaptation of The Hobbit and, if it were to prove succesfull, would make two films based off of The Lord of the Rings back-to-back, to be released six months apart. Jackson would have prefered to make three Lord of the Rings entries (and, as he read through The Hobbit, at least two based on that book) but wasn't in a position to make an overly-ambitious pitch. Having not reread the books since 1979, Jackson's memory was "a bit foggy" and he was relying more on Walsh's memory, and of his own memory of the radio serial.
Harvey, who had read the books in college, was enthusiastic, and partnered with his brother Bob Weinstein at Dimension Films. It was to be Miramax break from Indie filmmaking into big blockbusters. Negotiations delayed until April 1996, with Harvey trying to keep Zaentz from getting involved as a producer, as well as having difficulty in securing the rights to The Hobbit, since the distribution rights remained with the bankrupt United Artists. Harvey tried to buy the rights from United Artists in vein, and suggested keeping The Hobbit as a possible prequel and proceed with “one or two” Lord of the Rings films. Dissatisfied with these notions and the lack of a deal, Jackson decided to accept an offer from Universal to direct King Kong, postponing The Lord of the Rings. He then suggested Miramax and Universal share distribution rights on both projects, which Universal agreed to. During this period, Jackson had reread The Hobbit and the prologue to The Lord of the Rings and set the MASSIVE Software into development.
When Universal cancelled King Kong in 1997, Jackson and Walsh immediately received support from Weinstein and began a six-week process of sorting out a deal with Zaentz, who had recently declined a proposal for a TV adaptation by ITV Granada. Jackson commissioned WETA to begin designing The Hobbit, but days later the rights proved unavailable and they were recommissioned to produce early designs for The Lord of the Rings. Simultaneously, Jackson and Walsh asked Costa Botes to write a complete, scene-by-scene synopsis of the book, which Jackson would then reorganize as a basis for a film treatment.
Immediately after Kong's cancelation, Jackson clarified to Harvey that he still intended to make two films, but concerns expressed by Miramax led him to try and write the treatment as a single film, "but by the time we had got to the end, it was clear that we were talking about two films." At the story conference in Miramax (during which the Bakshi cartoon was screened), the Weinsteins "blanched" but accepted two films. While writing the treatment, Jackson considered doing three films and "shaped our treatment into three parts" before Miramax rejected the idea.
Between the synopsis and the treatment, Jackson decided to cut Gildor, Crickhollow, the Old Forest, Tom Bombadil, the Barrow-wights, Bill Ferny, Radagast, Lothlórien and Ghân-buri-Ghân. The final treatment divides the story into two parts: The Fellowship of the Ring (which covered the eponymous novel but also The Two Towers) and The War of the Ring. The first opens immediately with the Battle of the Last Alliance (in what Jackson called a "James Bond" opening) and ends with Saruman's death, and Gandalf and Pippin (the latter having looked into the palantír) going to Minas Tirith.
In this treatment, Farmer Maggot and Glorfindel are present; Gwaihir and Gandalf visit Edoras after escaping Saruman, and Éowyn and Éomer help him find Shadowfax against the wishes of a possessed Théoden. Gollum attacks Frodo when the Fellowship is still united, a struggle during which the Ring falls into the mud and is picked up by Boromir. Bilbo attends the Council of Elrond and Sam looks into Galadriel's mirror. At the end of the film, Saruman is shot by an overhead Nazgûl and, before his death, is redeemed through issuing the palantír for Gandalf to look into. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli are sent south to espy Sauron's forces, and Frodo and Sam are en route to the Black Gate.
The second film opens in the thick of battle, and ends with Frodo sailing to the West. It features a more pronounced romantic triangle with Arwen and Éowyn, including a scene of Aragorn and Éowyn "asleep in each other's arms"; and has Elladan, Elrohir, and Erkenbrand join Aragorn on the Paths of the Dead (the latter dying in the process), which are described as though made of flesh and feature an undead Isildur as King of the Dead. The Nazgûl just make it into Mount Doom before they fall.
In the story conference, they presented this treatment to Harvey and Bob Weinstein, the latter of whom they focused on impressing with their screenwriting, as he had not read the book. Jackson would later recall that Harvey's "heart was always in the right place" and that he gave good notes, suspecting it was Bob who lacked faith in the project. With Disney's approval, they agreed upon two films and a total budget of $75 million. Jackson hoped the budget would increase to accommodate the nature of the back-to-back production, saying later than he worked in the premise that by "incrementally doing a little bit of development" would lead to the studio getting "in too deep."
Stephen Sinclair came on board for a couple of weeks to help flesh-out the scripts, and later brought along his partner, Philippa Boyens, a major fan of the book. Philippa had read The Silmarillion, Unfinished Tales, Tolkien's biography, his letters, Tom Shippey's The Road to Middle Earth and David Day's books, bringing depth to their understanding of the work. It took 13 to 14 months to write the two film scripts, which were 147 and 144 pages respectively. Sinclair left the project due to theatrical obligations, but maintains a credit on The Two Towers, where enough of his contributions survived to the finished film.
The length and certain aspects of the scripts - such as the role of Arwen - were at this stage written as if as "a selling script" to impress the Weinsteins. Miramax seemed to Jackson to be "happy with the scripts", but they later told producer Marty Katz they "contained too much information, too many characters and too many situations." Jackson sensed they were stalling during the story conferences.
In this version, Farmer Maggot and Fatty Bolger appear. Gandalf is more frail and has given up pipe-smoking, and Gimli's dialogue contains several vulgarities. Sam, Merry and Pippin are all caught eavesdropping behind the door and forced to go along with Frodo. The Nazgûl skewer Barliman Butterbur and Wargs attack the Hobbits near Weathertop. Gandalf's account of his time at Orthanc was pulled out of flashback and Lothlórien was cut, with Galadriel doing what she does in the story at Rivendell. Denethor attends the Council of Elrond with his son. The Watcher in the Water, absent from the treatment, is reinstated. Arwen now rescues Frodo instead of Glorfindel, and later joins the Battle of Helm's Deep, where a Nazgûl sweeps in, only for its fellbeast to be slain by Gimli. Indeed, Théoden's palace is placed in Helm's Deep itself. While on the Seat of Seeing, Frodo sees the Nazgûl, having killed Saruman, attack Gandalf. He puts on the Ring to draw him away and is attacked by a fellbeast, which Sam lassos to the structure. The Nazgûl attack Sam before Frodo kills it.
The second script included a sex scene between Aragorn and Arwen in the Glittering Caves, interrupted by Legolas and Gimli's sight-seeing the caves. Arwen later fends off a Nazgûl that menaces Pippin and joins the Rohirrim. The writers also considered having Arwen absorb Éowyn's role entirely by having her kill the Witch-king, with the resulting wound becoming the source of her illness. Faramir finds Frodo after Denethor sends him to do so, having learned the secret of the quest from Pippin. Imrahil and Forlong appear in the script, and Aragorn fights Sauron in front of the Black Gate. Other developments during the Miramax period including hiring a producer, Tim Sanders; buying a studio, Stone Street, for which Jackson mortgaged his house; and early location scouts.
Meanwhile, Weta Digital developed the "MASSIVE" software and Weta Workshop began conceptual design for the films. Having used their paintings for inspiration (to the point of showing them in story conferences) Jackson suggested hiring Alan Lee and John Howe. Miramax didn't want to involve Lee, due to his association with Tolkien's Estate, but Jackson tracked the reclusive Lee through Michael Palin and convinced him and Howe to join the project. Howe, who previously mailed Lee and spoke to him on the phone once, met him on the plane. Howe also brought along a collection of recreated Medieval armour for reference. A third artist, Ted Nasmith, was invited to join later, but had to decline. Ralph Bakshi also claimed Jackson's company bought many of his designs.
Early discussions of casting were held, with Miramax wanting to "Americanize" the project, and suggesting star names like Daniel Day-Lewis for Aragorn and even Morgan Freeman for Gandalf. Harvey had also dissuaded Jackson from considering Mira Sorvino and Ashley Judd, whom Harvey had secretly harassed just previous to this time. Jackson had wanted to cast character actors from the Commonwealth, instead, and began to compile a wishlist, which included Ian Holm for Bilbo Baggins and Cate Blanchett for Galadriel.
Although Miramax never officially greenlit the films, Jackson had completed the first script and much of the second script and together with Miramax drew a 110-day schedule for production, beginning in April 1999 for release in Christmas 2000 and Memorial Day 2001. In so doing, they were able to budget the films better. Bob Weinstein became increasingly concerned about the project, and with another payment to Zaentz for the rights coming up, Miramax started asking for cost-cutting rewrites such as killing one of the four Hobbits, and sent producers to oversee the work done in New Zealand. Eventually, Marty Katz arrived to New Zealand. Spending four months there, he told Miramax that the films were more likely to cost $150 million; which was beyond Miramax' abilities. Between budgetary issues and creative disputes, Jackson is believed to have leaked a copy of the script in anticipating of the project collapsing, opening the door for other studios to pick it up.
Harvey went to Disney chairman Joe Roth, who went to CEO Michael Eisner with a request to aid Miramax on budgeting the production. With Eisner having recently demanded cost-cutting measures, he declined. Walsh said this was due to lack of faith in the property and concern over Jackson's proclivity to make violent films, although Eisner (who regretted the decision in retrospect) would later claim that he only refused because Harvey Weinstein refused to let him review the project or meet Jackson. Sean Astin would later overhear Eisner regretting the decision. Instead, Miramax looked for other studios like DreamWorks to join, but were again unsuccessful, and instead suggested merging the films into one. Coincidentally, Eisner put other Miramax projects (namely, Rush Hour) to turnaround previously, with New Line Cinema picking them up.
Bob Weinstein commissioned Jack Lechner to sketch a one-film version of the story. Lechner saw the story as too "dense" and that any two-film version would have left audiences unfulfilled since the story was only "half-told." He also thought Frodo was a weak character. On 17 June 1998, he sent a memo in which he suggested cutting Bree and the Battle of Helm's Deep, "losing or using" Saruman, merging Rohan and Gondor with Éowyn as Boromir's sister, shortening Rivendell and Moria (losing the Balrog and the fight in Balin's Tomb in the process) as well as having Ents prevent the Uruk-hai from kidnapping Merry and Pippin. Miramax even drafted a schedule for production this version.
Katz thought the one-film version "could have been made. It could even have been a good movie." Jackson agreed that "As an exercise in reducing The Lord of the Rings to one film, it demonstrated a lot of common sense", but was upset by the idea of "cutting out half the good stuff." In the following meeting, he tried to convince Harvey to make the first film on-budget and then make the second film, and later suggested making a one-film version under the provision that it would be four-hours long. Harvey refused, insisting on telling the whole story in a two-hour film. Jackson balked, and Miramax declared that any script or work completed by Weta Workshop was theirs, and that they would commission Hossein Amini to rewrite the script with Walsh. In fact, they had already sent the two-film script to Amini who "loved it". When Jackson and Walsh refused to co-operate, Harvey said he had John Madden ready to direct it. In a later phone-call to Jackson's agent, Harvey instead mentioned Quentin Tarantino. Jackson and Amini both believe this was a bluff to get Jackson to agree to make one film.
Jackson contemplated the one-film version back in New Zealand, before giving-up altogether, but their agent later called Harvey and clarified to him that, should he hire other filmmakers, he couldn't use Jackson's scripts or designs as a basis, which would compound the cost, and that he would be better off putting the project on a turnaround. Miramax didn't want to turn the project around, but were finally convinced to do so. However, hoping that Jackson could be forced to make the one-film version, Miramax dictated draconian conditions for the turnaround, limiting it to four weeks. They also demanded a return on $10 million spent on development and $2 spent on acquiring New Zealand currency, as well as Executive Producer credit and 5% of the revenue for themselves and Disney. Eisner had so little hope for the project he only claimed half of this figure, while the other half was split between Harvey and Bob.
Jackson made a thirty-five minute "making of" video to sell the project, and had the scripts and animatic sent to various studios. Charlie Rose observed that Jackson, who already had the idea of making three films earlier, possibly hoped that studio executives would "bite and say: 'why not three movies?'" and Kristin Thompson observed that indeed the pitch video conveniently doesn't specify the number of films to be produced.
Jackson wanted to go to New Line Cinema, where his friend Mark Ordesky was an executive. Knowing Ordesky was a fan of the books, Jackson called him with the proposition. Meanwhile, all the other studios passed. Robert Zemeckis didn't want to do a fantasy film. Regency were interested in doing the film with Fox, but the studio declined over Zaentz' involvement. Centropolis and Sony didn't like the script. Polygram were interested but were in the process of being sold to Universal, who had just shot-down Jackson's King Kong. The other studios didn't even review the scripts. Meanwhile, Jackson contemplated other projects like a The World is Not Enough, Fight Club, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, The BFG, a World-War One film with Chris Columbus and a Space Opera.
A fan of the books, New Line CEO Robert Shaye was enthusiastic about the concept ever since he heard Miramax landed it, but when the opportunity came, he initially refused Mark Ordesky's inquiry to take-over the project, on account of the percentage that the Weinsteins demanded. New Line, however, failed to establish several franchises and had recently been acquired by Time-Warners, and were desperate for lucrative sequels, which led Shaye to be convinced into meeting Jackson. He had not read the scripts, and was still unsure, however, but Jackson feigned being busy talking to other studios to give Shaye the impression that he was "in a more competitive situation than he truly was."
Shaye had run the prospect by his head of international distribution, who said he could shore-up most of the investment for the first film from foreign distributors. He was still unsure about Jackson himself, and talked to him before the meeting, telling him he didn't like The Frighteners and that The Lord of the Rings is "probably something that we're not going to want to do." However, after viewing the video, he asked "Why would anyone want movie-goers to pay $18 when they might pay $27?". Eventually Jackson caught along that Shaye wanted to make three films, to which he responded enthusiastically. Shaye later explained he had already discussed making three films – should he decide to take the project – with his partner Michael Lynne, and went on to comment that he "would have made five if there were five books." He talked about whether they should be released within a month, two years or three.
Harvey agreed to elongate the turnaround period to facilitate the transition, although before the deal was finalized, Miramax representatives came to inspect all the props in case the project would fall over and they would fly all of Weta's designs to New York. Peter would later say that Miramax never understood the project, but admitted that "if he’d been able to get the money then Harvey would have made The Lord of the Rings." Nevertheless, he also recalled Harvey being a "bully" and never worked with him again.
Jackson wanted Marty Katz to remain as a producer, but Katz was unavailable. New Line suggested Barrie Osborne and, after a meeting, Jackson agreed. Alun Bollinger declined to be director of photography for such a long project, and so Jackson auditioned John Mahaffie but ultimately hired Andrew Lesnie. Their original gaffer quit in preproduction and was replaced by Brian Bansgrove. The films weren't officially greenlit until a few days before principal photography.
Now Jackson, Walsh and Boyens had to write three new scripts. The expansion to three films allowed much more creative freedom, although Jackson, Walsh and Boyens had to restructure their script accordingly. The three films do not correspond exactly to the trilogy's three volumes, but rather represent a three-part adaptation. Jackson takes a more chronological approach to the story than did Tolkien. Frodo's quest is the main focus, and Aragorn is the main sub-plot. The filmmakers also consulted Tolkien's biography, letters and scholarly books written on his works. They spoke with Tolkien's Estate, who decided to distance themselves from the films but were "in no way opposed to the making of the films." Jackson had considered putting the attacks on Lothlórien and Erebor into the film, but couldn't fit it in. He had mused about shooting more footage later on in order to fit Aragorn's hunt of Gollum into the film, but ultimately decided not to do so.
Jackson had pitched the budgets to New Line as around $180 million, which Shaye suspected was overly-optimistic. New Line executive Carla Fry came to New Zealand and estimated it at $207 million, which gave Shaye a brief pause before he agreed, although the figure would continue to increase throughout production. By Christmas break of 2000, the project budget had started to increase and New Line (compelled by Warners) considered cancelling it. They were dissuaded, but compelled Jackson to fire producer Tim Sanders and replace Special Effects Supervisor Mark Stetson with Jim Rygiel.
After the success of the first film, Jackson convinced New Line to increase the post-production budgets for the following entries, resulting in a final budget of $270 million, plus marketing expanses estimated at $30–70 million.
In 1998, during a conference with Miramax, the Weinsteins started an abstract discussion on casting. They were pushing for American stars, or British actors that would be recognisable to American filmgoers or Academy voters. For Gandalf, they suggested Paul Scofield - whom the filmmakers preferred for the role of Saruman - and Max von Sydow; and engaged in argument about Morgan Freeman for the role. Anthony Hopkins was suggested for Bilbo, but the first name on Jackson's own wish list - which he comprised at the time - was Ian Holm. Francesca Annis was suggested for Galadriel, but Walsh had already put Cate Blanchett on the wish list.
Natascha McElhone and Claire Forlani were suggested for the other female parts, but Jackson instead expressed enthusiasm for Mira Sorvino and Ashley Judd. He had in fact had a "nice" meeting with Judd and had presented her with both the roles of Arwen and Éowyn as potential roles. However, Harvey Weinstein had (unbeknownst to Jackson and Walsh) harassed both actresses, and told the filmmakers they were a "nightmare to work with."
Miramax suggested Daniel Day-Lewis for Aragorn - starting "fanciful internet speculation" that Day-Lewis was approached for the part multiple times - as well as Liam Neeson for Boromir and David Bowie for Elrond. Although he was wary of casting famous stars, Jackson did keep these ideas to mind when the films went to New Line Cinema, trying for Bowie and sending the scripts to Neeson, both of whom declined.
In late 1998, they began casting unknowns for the main parts of the Hobbits. Jackson had auditioned about 200 young English actors for Frodo, of which a couple made an impression: Dominic Monaghan auditioned but was recast as Merry. Stuart Townsend read for the part, but Jackson would instead reconsider him for the role of Aragorn.
Hearing the filmmakers wouldn't audition for the Hobbits outside of the UK, Elijah Wood sent a home-made audition tape. Jackson had heard Elijah's name but had never seen him in a film and "would have never thought" of casting him, but Walsh insisted they review the tape, which compelled them to go to Los Angeles and meet him, during which time they also auditioned Jake Gyllenhaal unsuccessfully. For Sam, they had auditioned Graham Norton, but narrowed it down to a choice between Sean Astin (whose original wish was to audition for Aragorn) and Johnny Vegas, who flunked his audition by arriving hoarse. Nick Moran was considered for Merry or Pippin.
Boyens wondered if Patrick Stewart would be right for the part of Gandalf, and drew a tape of him performing opposite Ian McKellen, only to suggest the latter to Jackson. By mid-1998 Jackson had several other "strong ideas" for Gandalf like Richard Harris, Nigel Hawthorne and Tom Baker, and they would audition other actors still "just to see who's out there." Christopher Lee sent Jackson (whom he had previously met very briefly) a photograph of him in a wizard's costume from the set of The New Adventures Of Robin Hood, wanting to play Gandalf. Indeed, Lee recalls that he took the part so as to make himself viable for mentor roles like Gandalf. However, when Jackson saw his photos he decided  would be a perfect Saruman, instead.
When casting discussions were restarted under New Line, the studio decided to not "go to huge stars, but were simply going to cast on merit". Nevertheless, they wanted Sean Connery for Gandalf. Jackson had previously said Connery "will not be Gandalf", saying he was "not right for the part" and thinking they could never afford his salary nor convince him to film for so long. New Line threatened not to greenlight the films without a star like Connery. A big fan, Jackson thought Connery would be "cool", and agreed to contact his agent, who was enthusiastic. Connery himself, however, had just finished Entrapment and was losing his taste for acting. Jackson tracked him down to his house in the Bahamas, sent the scripts to him and in fact monitored the package to his house and put the Wellington Golf Courses on alert, should Connery accept the part. After weeks, Connery declined the part, saying he "didn't understand it" and citing the time requirement, taking a role in Finding Forrester instead. He would later take his last acting role in The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen in 2002 before officially confirming his retirement in 2006. New Line also suggested Christopher Plummer for Gandalf (who likewise declined due to the time required) and Brad Pitt for Aragorn.
Jackson considered Richard Harris (first actor of Dumbledore) for Gandalf, but New Line said that Harris "will not be in this movie" and wouldn't even let him audition. Tom Baker was considered, but also declined for the time requirement. Nigel Hawthorne, another choice, was undergoing treatments for pancreatic cancer. Bernard Hill, a fan of the book, sought the filmmakers out and read for the part, but declined to pursue it any further, citing the time requirement, before he was approached again to play the smaller role of Théoden. Sam Neil had conflicting schedules. Tom Wilkinson received an "availability check" but was never approached, as Jackson had by now approached McKellen. Peter O'Toole and John Hurt were also said to have been considered. When von Sydow inquired for the part later, his agent told him they were looking for an English actor. John Astin also auditioned for the role. Paul Scofield, Patrick McGoohan and Anthony Hopkins, considered primarily for Saruman, Denethor and Bilbo, accordingly, were also considered.
When Jackson approached McKellen, he wasn't "mad keen" about it, having read The Hobbit but not The Lord of the Rings, and being worried about the time requirement. The script, though incomplete, impressed him and he accepted, before notifying Jackson of conflicting schedules with X-Men. Robert Shaye convinced McKellen to take the part anyway, and Jackson and X-Men director Bryan Singer (a fan of the book and previous acquaintance of Jackson's) readjusted their schedules for Jackson to accommodate McKellen, issuing an insurance policy in case of delays. McKellen did visit New Zealand ahead of time for a table-read of the script.
When Christopher Lee asked to meet Jackson, Jackson wanted to offer him Saruman, but due to Lee being "reluctant to play any more villains" Jackson considered Jeremy Irons, Malcolm McDowell, and Tim Curry and had auditioned John Noble. Lee himself wished to play Gandalf, but realizing he was too old, he instead came-in to read for Denethor. Afterward, the filmmakers showed him photographs and artwork, which impressed him greatly, to the point that he couldn't help himself from getting the filmmakers to let him read for Gandalf, too, in spite of Jackson "virtually offering him the role of Saruman right there." A few weeks later, he accepted the part of Saruman.
Ian Holm was approached early on, but waited until Jackson secured McKellen as Gandalf, being thrilled to work with him. In the meanwhile, Jackson had Sylvester McCoy as a possible replacement in case Holm refused. They "never saw anybody else" for Bilbo, although they would later want McCoy for Radagast. Philippa Boyens claims that during the 2002 BAFTAs, she met Martin Freeman and first considered him for the younger Bilbo Baggins.
For Aragorn, Day-Lewis was briefly considered again, as were Dougray Scott, Jason Carter and Robin Atkin Downes. Patrick Stewart asked to meet Jackson, but before he could discuss the role of Théoden with him, Jackson realized Stewart wanted to play Aragorn. Vin Diesel submitted a "compelling" audition tape for the part, which Keanu Reeves also lobbied for. Instead, Jackson insisted on Stuart Townsend, whom New Line deemed too young. After shooting began, Jackson conceded, relieved Townsend and notified Mark Ordesky.
Independently, both Ordesky and Jackson (with Walsh and Boyens) had considered some of the same names for a replacement: namely, Viggo Mortensen - who's name had already come-up in the original casting period and Russel Crowe. Jackson leaned towards Crowe (who had previously read for Boromir) but Boyens and Walsh favoured Viggo Mortensen. Ordesky had written three names on a piece of stationary: Mortensen, Crowe and Jason Patric. In shared conversations, they "kept coming up with other options" but decided to approach Viggo, with Crowe as a backup choice. Ordesky called Viggo's agent and sent the scripts to Crowe. Flattered, Crowe had to decline because he was already committed to A Beautiful Mind. He later said he could tell by the tone of the conversation that he wasn't the filmmakers' first choice for the role. Compelled by his son, Mortensen eventually accepted.
Patrick McGoohan, their first choice for Denethor, proved "quite grumpy" when they met, and they instead looked into Donald Sutherland and John Rhys-Davies, and ultimately cast John Noble, who previously read for Denethor. Davies was recast as Gimli, instead of Billy Connolly (later cast in The Hobbit film trilogy as Dáin), Bill Bailey (later also considered for Glóin), Robert Trebor and Timothy Spall. Warwick Davis lobbied for the part unsuccesfully. Nick Offerman, in spite of originally wanting to play Sam, had landed an audition for the role but was unsuccessful.
For Boromir, they had auditioned Russell Crowe and Daniel Craig. Simon Tolkien asked to meet them for the part, but the audition was "awkward." Bruce Willis lobbied for the part and was favoured by New Line, but Jackson declined. Nicolas Cage's agent held "dialogue" with the studio for the part, but both Cage and Jackson were uninterested. For Faramir, Jackson wanted to "go his own way" but New Line suggested Stephen Dorff, who declined, and then Ethan Hawke, with then-wife Uma Thurman to play Éowyn. Thurman had just given birth and eventually pulled out, causing Ethan to decline as well. Orlando Bloom originally auditioned for Faramir before the filmmakers recast him as Legolas. For Éowyn, Kate Winslet, Mila Jovovich, Iben Hjelje and Alison Doody were also considered before Miranda Otto was cast. After Patrick Stewart read the scripts and turned down the role, Kevin Conway was briefly attached to the role of Théoden before Bernard Hill took over. Richard O'Brien's agent refused to have him read for Gríma Wormtongue, believing the films would be a disaster.
Lucy Lawless and Nicole Kidman were considered for Galadriel before they secured Cate Blanchett. After failing to find an Elrond, producer Barrie Osborne suggested Hugo Weaving from The Matrix, who then visited the set and agreed to assume the role. Helena Bonham-Carter lobbied for Arwen, but when Jackson suggested Liv Tyler, New Line "got very excited", deeming her a worthy star to substitute for their inability to land Connery and Hawke.
Jackson began storyboarding the trilogy with Christian Rivers in August 1997 and assigned his crew to begin designing Middle-earth at the same time. Jackson hired longtime collaborator Richard Taylor to lead Weta Workshop on five major design elements: armour, weapons, prosthetics/make-up, creatures and miniatures. In November 1997, famed Tolkien illustrators Alan Lee and John Howe joined the project. Most of the imagery in the films is based on their various illustrations. Grant Major was charged with the task of converting Lee and Howe's designs into architecture, creating models of the sets, whilst Dan Hennah worked as art director, scouting locations and organizing the building of sets.
To plan his visual effects sequences, Jackson also utilized a lipstick camera for the models of sets. Rick McCallum and George Lucas invited him to Skywalker Ranch and showed him their animatics, which Jackson then emulated to previsualize the action set pieces and battles. In 1999, Jackson unsuccessfully negotiated for a delay in filming to get his previz work finished, first. Pre-visualisation would continue throughout production, such as the late addition of the Ents attacking Isengard, and the Siege of Minas Tirith in February 2003.
Jackson's vision of Middle-earth was described as being "Ray Harryhausen meets David Lean" by Randy Cook. Jackson himself said that "I love David Lean's films. I did want to make an epic film, and David Lean is synonymous with the epic film." Jackson repeatedly cited the 1995 historical epic Braveheart as a good example "of the feeling he was hoping to evoke with Middle-earth", saying:
"It might be clearer if I described it as an historical film. Something very different to Dark Crystal or Labyrinth. Imagine something like Braveheart, but with a little of the visual magic of Legend. [...] It should have the historical authority of Braveheart, rather than the meaningless fantasy mumbo-jumbo of Willow.
Other films Jackson used for inspiration were Saving Private Ryan (which influenced the Battle of Helm's Deep), Goodfellas and Terminator 2 (which he'd rewatch regularly throughout the project), John Ford films - Jackson referred to several sequences in The Two Towers as being akin to a Ford Western - and The Thin Red Line. George Lucas' Star Wars influenced the decision to make the locations and set appear "lived-in." By contrast, Jackson wished to stay away from the the "old guys firing blue lightening out of their fingertips" of Willow and Return of the Jedi and the "heavy metal" look of Conan the Barbarian.
Reflecting back on the Bakshi film, he and Walsh feared making Treebeard look stupid, as in that film he "looked like a talking carrot." However, Jackson did include an intentional homage to the cartoon through a shot of Odo Proudfoot. Another shot indirectly taken from Bakshi's film (through a John Howe painting of the scene in question) was of the Hobbits hiding from the Ringwraith, and its very likely the misdirection of making it seem like the Ringwraiths killed the Hobbits in Bree was inspired by Bakshi's film. Jackson had admitted that without having seen the film, "he may or may not have made the films..."
In November 1997, famed Tolkien illustrators Alan Lee and John Howe joined the project. Lee was initially charged with designing the free people, and Howe the forces of evil, but over time the lines blurred. Up until then, concept artists had primarily been influenced by Dungeons & Dragons in their designs. Some of their famous images of Bag End, Orthanc, Helm's Deep, the Black Gate, and John Howe's Gandalf and the Balrog made it into the film. The last one inspired the opening sequence of The Two Towers. Jackson sometimes replicated some shots from famous Tolkien illustrations as a nod to fans.
Lee worked on designs for architecture, the first being Helm's Deep, as well as the Elven realms, Moria, Edoras, and Minas Tirith, and although Howe primarily designed armour and the forces of evil (see below), he contributed to the design of Bag End, Minas Morgul, Cirith Ungol and Barad-dûr. Lee also applied a personal touch by painted imagery in Rivendell, such as the one of Isildur removing the One Ring from Sauron, as well as tapestries in Edoras. There are many real-life influences on the Middle-earth seen in the films: Rivendell is "a cross between a Japanese Temple and Frank Lloyd Wright", and Minas Tirith takes influence from Mont Saint-Michel and the Palatine Chapel in Aachen. The City of the Dead takes stylistic inspiration from Petra, Jordan, and the Grey Havens were inspired by the paintings of J. M. W. Turner.
Grant Major was charged with the task of converting Lee and Howe's designs into architecture, creating models of the sets, whilst Dan Hennah worked as art director, scouting locations and organizing the building of sets. The army often helped out, too, building Hobbiton almost a year before filming to give the impression of real growth and age, moving 5,000 cubic metres (180,000 cu ft) of earth, and creating roads to the Edoras location during six months of building, although there was some controversy over their pay. Sometimes sets would be reshaped: the caverns of Isengard became Shelob's Lair, and Helm's Deep became a Minas Tirith backlot. Sets would also occasionally employ forced perspective to save budget. Despite a large amount of safety involved, there were still fires on a Rohirrim village location and the Morgul-road set, and Alan Lee fell off a Lothlórien miniature. During Bilbo's birthday party speech, the polystyrene birthday cake with 111 (not confirmed if there really were 111) candles was actually on fire, but everyone kept acting while some of the crew tried to put it out. A similar instance of things occurring that were not in the script was Ian McKellen knocking his head painfully on a beam inside Bag End, but he kept acting through it (though the actor says he improvised it and did it intentionally).
The Art Department was careful to respect nature, considering its importance to Tolkien, such as taking plants from the Edoras location into a nursery. They would sometimes mould shapes from real rocks and bark, too, and take branches into a steel structure with polystyrene for more convincing prop trees. Brian Massey led the Greens Department, and even wrote a booklet on tree growth when he complained of the props "being too coney" for Lothlórien when the time came to film Fangorn Forest. The numerous props within the trilogy were all originally designed at different scales, and many craftsmen were hired, most notably Jens Hansen Gold & Silversmith to create 15 replicas of the One Ring.
Contemporary jeweller Jasmine Watson created other significant pieces of jewelry, including the Evenstar worn by Arwen, and Nenya, the ring worn by Galadriel. Statues were sculpted out of polystyrene, although some thrones seen in the trilogy are in fact crafted out of marble, stone and wood. A former bank worker named Daniel Reeve was hired to write the numerous books, spines, documents, maps, diagrams and even Orc graffiti that appear in the trilogy.
In total, Weta Workshop created 48,000 pieces of armour, 500 bows and 10,000 arrows. They also created many prosthetics, such as 1800 pairs of Hobbit feet for the lead actors, as well as many ears, noses and heads for the cast, and around 19,000 costumes were woven and aged. Every prop was specially designed by the Art Department, taking the different scales into account.
Jackson hired longtime collaborator Richard Taylor to lead Weta Workshop on five major design elements: armour, weapons, prosthetics/make-up, creatures and miniatures. Notable among the concept artists were Daniel Falconer and Warren Mahy, who enjoyed creating the forces of good and evil respectively. Jamie Beswarick and Mike Asquith also helped with the maquettes, as well as Ben Wooten with his extensive zoology knowledge and many others.
John Howe was the supervisor on armour, having studied and worn it. Stu Johnson and Warren Green made 48,000 pieces of armour from the numerous moulds of plate steel. A small group of crew members spent three years linking plastic chain mail, eventually wearing their thumbprints away. Peter Lyon also forged swords, each taking from three to six days, creating spring steel "hero" swords for close-ups, aluminum fight swords and rubber versions, too. Weta also created 10,000 real arrows and 500 bows. Howe even created a less crude type of crossbow, intended for the Uruk-hai while requiring no external tools to rearm, based on a 16th-century manuscript.
Weta created numerous pieces of prosthetics and continually monitored them on set. They created 1,800 Orc body suits to go with 10,000 Orc heads, lasting six days and one day respectively. Weta also spent a year creating hobbit feet that would look like large, furry feet yet act as shoes for the actors. In total, 1,800 pairs were used by the four lead hobbit actors during production. Actors would also go in for face casts to create pointed ears and false noses. Most extensive was John Rhys-Davies as Gimli, whose Dwarven prosthetics required four-and-a-half hours to apply in the morning. Gino Acevedo worked on creating realistic skin tones for the actors, such as Bernard Hill's possessed Théoden and a younger Bilbo. Peter King and Peter Owen also led the make-up department in making numerous wigs and creating general dirt on the actors. As well as applying make-up, at the end of the day there was an hour of carefully removing the make-up and prosthetics. Numerous corpses of actors and horses were also made.
Weta's first completed creature was the cave troll. Production designers originally wanted to make the Orcs totally animalistic before the switch to prosthetics. They gave specific designs to the Moria Orcs, Uruk-hai and Mordor Orcs so as to give variety to the characters. They also spent time making creatures biologically believable, rooting them sometimes in real creatures: Shelob's body is based on that of a funnel web spider, and the Wargs are a bear/hyena/wolf hybrid. Howe lent himself for Beswarick to study when shaping Gollum; Beswarick also took inspiration from Iggy Pop due to his skin-muscle ratio. Whilst most creatures were destined to exist in the computer, Weta did create a 14-foot-tall (4.3 m) Treebeard puppet (which needed five people to operate it), a single dead mûmak and, later on, a "Phoney Pony" for close-up shots of riding actors. Designing continued throughout production, such as Gollum's redesign in May 2001 and the Great Beasts in early 2003.
The backstories of several of the cultures depicted in the films had to be shown through only subliminal glimpses on screen, as are the miniatures, and for the Elves and Gondorians, fictional histories had to be presented within the changes of armour. The Elves have an Art Nouveau influence that involves leaves and flowers, while the Dwarves have a preoccupation with geometry that was intended to remind the audience of their digging nature. The Hobbits hark back to 18th-century England, the Rohirrim feature numerous horse and sun motifs and draw visual inspiration from Beowulf and the Anglo-Saxon artifacts found in the Sutton Hoo burial ship, and the Gondorians reflect 16th-century German and Italian armour as well as tree motifs. The evil Haradrim Men take influence from Aztecs and Kiribati after bad feedback from Phillipa Boyens over looking African. Most of the Orc armour is sharp, reflecting secateurs, and has runes written on it to reflect a worship of Sauron.
Several liberties were taken in adapting Tolkien's weaponry and armour to the screen. While plate armour is used in the films, it is unmentioned in any of the author's writings (except for vambraces), where scale and especially mail predominate. Some swords, like the broken royal sword Narsil, are also interpreted as two-handed longswords. These design choices help evoke the Late Medieval and Renaissance periods, whereas Tolkien's original atmosphere is generally more akin to the Early Medieval period. In a private letter, Tolkien compared Middle-earth clothing and war gear to that of Dark Age Europe and the Bayeux Tapestry. Weta also invented Elvish inscriptions for weapons like the spear Aeglos and the swords Sting and Narsil. In some cases, Tolkien writes about runes on sword blades but does not give them in detail. The Elves in the film series use curved swords, whereas the author mostly assigns such swords to Orcs and enemy Men (he mentions one Elf in particular bearing a curved sword in very early writings). The designers went so far as to invent new weapons, such as the Elvish sword Hadhafang, used by Arwen; while the design is original, the name is derived from Tolkien's "Etymologies" in The Lost Road and Other Writings.
To develop fight and sword choreography for the series, the filmmakers employed Hollywood sword-master Bob Anderson. Anderson worked directly with the talent, including Viggo Mortensen and Karl Urban, to develop the film's many sword fights and stunts. Anderson's role in The Lord of the Rings series is highlighted in the 2009 film Reclaiming the Blade. This documentary on sword martial arts also featured Weta Workshop and interviews with Mortensen, Urban, Richard Taylor, and John Howe. All discussed their roles and work on the series as related to the sword.
Ngila Dickson was hired on 1 April 1999 to handle the numerous costumes. She and 40 seamstresses worked on over 19,000 costumes for the film series. Due to the large shooting schedule, 10 versions of each costume were made, with 30 more for stunt, scale and other doubles, all in all meaning each design had 40 versions.
Due to Jackson's requirement of realism, the costumers took great pains to make costumes look "lived in", wearing away colour, stuffing pockets and dirtying costumes for the likes of Gandalf and Aragorn due to their terrain-crossing nature. As with armour, there was also acid etching and some overdyeing of colours. Dickson decided to give the Hobbits shorts due to their bare feet, and specifically worked on long sleeves for the Elves for a gliding impression. Dickson also took great pains to distinguish the colors worn by the Gondorians (silver and black) and the Rohirrim (brown and green).
Jackson and Andrew Lesnie discussed shooting the films on 65mm filmstock, but it was cumbersome, cost-prohibitive and required dailies to be processed outside of New Zealand. They considered shooting anamorphic, but it was decided Super-35mm would make post-production easier and could be done in New Zealand, which Jackson was adamant about.
Jackson started colour timing early footage photochemically, but then purchased an Arrilaser scanner and opted to digitally grade the rest of the footage, estimated at 78% of the footage shown in theaters. Jackson and Lesnie looked into the possibility of processing the footage in 4K, but it proved cost-prohibitive. Instead, it was processed in 2K but underwent DNR and sharpening to compensate. The remaining 22% of the footage from the Fellowship of the Ring - mostly early effects shots - was put back through a digital intermediate for later releases, and rescanned from filmouts at 4K for the Ultra-HD Blu-ray release of 2020.
Principal photography for all three films was conducted concurrently in New Zealand from October 11, 1999 through to December 22, 2000 for 274 days. Pick-up shoots were conducted annually from 2001 to 2004. The trilogy was shot at over 150 different locations, with seven different units shooting, as well as sound-stages around Wellington and Queenstown. As well as Jackson directing the whole production, other unit directors included John Mahaffie, Geoff Murphy, Fran Walsh, Barrie Osborne, Rick Porras and any other assistant director, producer or writer available. Jackson monitored these units with live satellite feeds, and with the added pressure of constant script re-writes and the multiple units interpreting his envisioned result, he only got around four hours of sleep a night. Due to the remoteness of some of New Zealand's untamed landscapes, the crew would also bring survival kits in case helicopters couldn't reach the location to bring them home in time.
Principal photography for The Lord of the Rings film trilogy was conducted concurrently in New Zealand for 438 days from 11 October 1999 through 22 December 2000. Pick-up shoots were conducted annually from 2001 to 2003. The trilogy was shot at over 150 different locations, with seven different units shooting, as well as at soundstages around Wellington and Queenstown. Jackson directed the whole production, while other unit directors included Alun Bollinger, John Mahaffie, Geoff Murphy, Fran Walsh, Barrie Osborne and Rick Porras. Jackson monitored these units with live satellite feeds, and with the added pressure of constant script re-writes and the multiple units handling his vision, he only got around four hours of sleep a night.
Jackson described the production as the world's largest home movie, due to the independence and sense of family. Producer Barrie Osborne saw it as a travelling circus. Fran Walsh described writing the script for the production as laying the track down in front of a moving train. Jackson also described shooting as like organizing an army, with 2,400 people involved at the height of production. Due to the remoteness of some of New Zealand's untamed landscapes, the crew carried survival kits in case helicopters could not reach the locations to bring them home in time.
The first scene filmed was the "Wooded Road" sequence in The Fellowship of the Ring, where the Hobbits hide beneath a tree from a mounted Ringwraith. The focus was generally on The Fellowship of the Ring when the Hobbits try to reach Rivendell, such as a single night in Bree exteriors; this was done with the hopes that the four actors playing the hobbits would bond. Second units also shot the Ford of Bruinen chase and the deforestation of Isengard. Liv Tyler generally came to New Zealand for stints, and spent five days on a barrel for Bruinen while riding double Jane Abbott got to ride on horseback.
During the first month of filming, Stuart Townsend was deemed too young to play Aragorn, and within three days Viggo Mortensen became his replacement, just in time to film the Bree scenes, followed by the Weathertop sequence. Mortensen, who decided to take the role in part because his own son was a fan of the series, became a hit on set, going fishing, always taking his "hero" sword around and applying dirt to his costume to improve costume designer Ngila Dickson's makeshift look. He also headbutted the stunt team as a sign of friendship, and bought himself his horse, Uraeus, as well as another horse for Abbott. During the Weathertop sequence, Philippa Boyens shot some second-unit footage.
The Cirith Ungol stair ledge was built as a wet weather set on a squash court in a hotel in Queenstown. On 24 November 1999, Sean Astin's close-ups on the Cirith Ungol set were shot in what became the first shots to be filmed for The Return of the King. Andy Serkis (Gollum) had not yet been cast. The set remained standing on the squash court and it was not until a year later, on 30 November 2000, that Elijah Wood's first close-ups were shot on the same ledge. This would become a general failsafe measure if the weather disrupted the shooting schedule. On Wood and the second Cirith Ungol shoot, Peter Jackson stated, "A year later, we were back in the squash court, and this time the heat was on Elijah. He had to get his head back into a scene that had been half-filmed so long ago. He knew that he had to deliver a performance that matched the emotion of Sean's takes, and that he did to perfection".
After this scene, when the flood ended, it was during this time that shooting became focused on the battle of Amon Hen. Sean Bean began filming in November for most of his scenes.
A Christmas break and Millennium celebrations followed, and filming resumed on 17 January. Ian McKellen, fresh from filming X-Men, arrived to film scenes in Hobbiton and the Grey Havens. Having previously visited for a script read, McKellen did not become that close to the lead Hobbit actors, as he generally worked with their scale doubles, but when Christopher Lee arrived in February, they became very friendly. Shooting the fight sequence in the Orthanc interiors, without air conditioning (for atmosphere) but with heavy wigs and robes, was described by the actors as "murder". The Grey Havens sequence, which takes place at the end of The Return of the King, was shot three times due to Sean Astin forgetting his vest after lunch and, then, an out-of-focus camera.
While the Hobbit leads had scenes in Hobbiton interiors and Rivendell exteriors in Kaitoke Park with new arrival Ian Holm, Mortensen, Orlando Bloom and John Rhys-Davies filmed scenes involving the Rohirrim countryside. Mortensen broke his toe kicking an Orc helmet on camera, Bloom fell off his horse and broke a rib, and Rhys-Davies' scale double Brett Beattie dislocated his knee. They spent two days injured during the "Orc hunting" sequence seen in the second film. Soon after, they spent a month of day shoots at Helm's Deep and another three months of night shoots handled by Mahaffie, in Dry Creek Quarry outside of Wellington, during which Mortensen's tooth was knocked out and Bernard Hill was hit on the ear with the flat of a sword. The extras insulted each other in Māori and improvised stunts, partially because those dressed in Uruk-hai prosthetics got extremely cold.
The production then got larger, with Wood and Astin shooting scenes at Mount Ruapehu for Emyn Muil and Mount Doom. On 13 April 2000, Andy Serkis joined the cast, initially as the voice of Gollum before Jackson decided to use him on the set. During this shoot, cross coverage was used for a pivotal scene in The Return of the King. In the meantime, prologue scenes and the Battle of the Black Gate were shot, during which Sala Baker wore the Sauron armour. The Black Gate scene was filmed at a former mine field in the Rangipo Desert, and soldiers served as extras. With the return of Sean Bean, the Fellowship reunited and proceeded to shoot the Moria sequence and the Rivendell interiors, including five days of coverage for the Council of Elrond.
In June they began shooting scenes on soundstages with Cate Blanchett for Lothlórien, as well as a week of exterior shooting for the Lothlórien farewell sequence. Other scenes shot in June were the Paths of the Dead across various locations, including the Putangirua Pinnacles. In July the crew shot some Shelob scenes, while another unit shot in July to August and during September time was spent on the scenes in Fangorn Forest and Isengard. Dominic Monaghan and Billy Boyd tried numerous takes of their entrance, stressing the word "weed" as they smoked pipe-weed. Christopher Lee spent his part of his scene mostly alone, though McKellen and Hill arrived on the first day for a few lines to help.
Edoras exteriors were shot in October. The Ride of the Rohirrim, where Théoden leads the charge into the Orc army, was filmed in Twizel with 250 extras on horseback. The Battle of the Pelennor Fields had more extensive use of computer-generated imagery, in contrast to the more extensive use of live action for the Battle of Helm's Deep in the second film. Also filmed were scenes in Osgiliath, including attempts by Faramir to retake the city. At this point production was very hectic, with Jackson moving around ten units per day, and production finally wrapped on the Minas Tirith sets, as well as second units shooting parts of the siege, while Jackson was busy editing a reel to be shown to foreign investors and to representatives of HarperCollins by December.
Pick-up shoots were conducted from 2001 to 2003 for six weeks every year to refine each film's edit. For the first two films, the cast and crew often returned to sets; for the third, they had to shoot around the clock in a car park full of set parts. Pick-ups provided a chance for cast and crew to meet in person again, and during The Two Towers pick-ups, Sean Astin directed a short film entitled The Long and Short of It.
Notable scenes filmed in the pick-ups include the flashback with Boromir (where he is sent to Rivendell by his father Denethor) featured in The Two Towers Extended Edition, as well as the re-shot Witch-king scenes with his new helmet design, the improved Orc designs and the new character of Gothmog, and a re-shoot of Aragorn and Arwen kissing at the coronation scene, all for The Return of the King. Théoden's last scene was re-shot just after Bernard Hill finished his scenes; Hill was still in New Zealand. Andy Serkis also had to re-shoot a Mount Doom scene in Jackson's house during post-production.
The final and only pick-up in 2004 was a series of shots of falling skulls in The Return of the King as part of an extended Paths of the Dead scene. Jackson joked that "it's nice to win an Oscar before you've even finished the film".
Post-production would have the benefit for a full year on each film before their respective December releases, often finishing in October–November, with the crew immediately going to work on the next film. Later on, Jackson would move to London to advise the score and continued editing, whilst having a computer feed for discussions to The Dorchester Hotel, and a "fat pipe" of internet connections from Pinewood Studios to look at the special effects. He had a Polycom video link and 5.1 surround sound to organise meetings, and listen to new music and sound effects generally wherever he was. The extended editions also had a tight schedule at the start of each year to complete special effects and music.
The first film has around 540 effects shots, the second 799, and the third 1488 (2730 in total). The total increases to 3420 with the extended editions. 260 visual effects artists began work on the trilogy, and the number doubled by The Two Towers. A couple of effects shots were farmed-out to other VFX companies: the Bruinen tide was done by Digital Domain, and GMD did Galadriel's resisting the temptation of the Ring.
The crew, led by Jim Rygiel and Randy Cook (joined by Joe Letteri starting with The Two Towers), worked long and hard hours, often overnight, to produce special effects within a short space of time. Jackson's overactive imagination was a driving force. For example, several major shots of Helm's Deep were produced within the last six weeks of post-production of The Two Towers, and the same happened again within the last six weeks on The Return of the King.
The Lord of the Rings film series used many ground breaking practical and digital visual effects that were unheard of in the film industry. Ranging from prosthetics and props to creatures almost entirely made through computer graphics, the process of making the film series has been praised as having forged a breakthrough in the world of cinematic visual effects. Weta Workshop was the major stylistic force behind the films, working on concepts, sets and digital effects years before the first scenes were even shot. Props, sets, prosthetics and locations were given the utmost concentration and detail to achieve a look that was as realistic as possible. More than 48,000 items were created for this trilogy alone, including completely specialized weapons, intricate miniature sets, and extremely lifelike prosthetic body parts. Two hundred and sixty visual effects artists started out on the trilogy; the number had more than doubled by the series' end. Led by acclaimed veterans and talented amateurs alike, the crews within each division would work overnight to produce special effects within short spaces of time to accommodate Jackson's active imagination.
Production was complicated by the use of scale doubles and forced perspective on a level never seen before in the film industry. In the Middle-earth storyverse, Hobbits are 3 ft 6 in (107 cm) tall, Dwarves are slightly taller at about 4 ft 6 in (137 cm), and Men and Elves are average human height, about 5 to 6 ft (150 to 180 cm). However, the films used two scale sets instead of three by casting taller than average actors to play Dwarves, then combining Dwarves and Hobbits into one size scale. Elijah Wood is 5 ft 6 in (1.68 m) tall in real life, but his character, Frodo Baggins, is only 3 ft 6 in (1.07 m) in height. John Rhys-Davies, who played the Dwarf Gimli, is taller than Wood. Thus in the ending shot of the Council of Elrond scene, when all nine members of the Fellowship of the Ring are standing together, Rhys-Davies and the four Hobbit actors were filmed first. The human-sized characters (Gandalf, Aragorn, Boromir and Legolas) were filmed in a second take, and the two shots were composited at different scales to make one image, making the initial Dwarf/Hobbit character shot seem smaller. An unintended advantage of not creating a third scale for Dwarves is that in a scene in which only Dwarves and Hobbits interact, no scale doubles are needed.
Large and small scale doubles were used in many other scenes, while entire duplicates of certain sets (including Bag End in Hobbiton) were built at two different scales so that the characters would appear to be the appropriate sizes. At one point in the film, Frodo runs along a corridor in Bag End, followed by Gandalf (played by Ian McKellen). Wood and McKellen were filmed in separate versions of the same corridor, built at two different scales; these two separate shots were then combined to create a shot of both actors appearing to be in the same corridor.
Forced perspective was also employed, so that it would look as though the short hobbits were interacting with taller Men and Elves. Surprising the makers of the film, the simple act of kneeling down was used to great effect. Some actors also wore oversized costumes to make average-sized actors look small, and there were numerous scale doubles who were disguised with costumes (and even latex faces for the hobbit doubles) and an avoidance of close-ups and numerous back shots. Big dummies and men on stilts were used to a very limited extent, mostly in the early Bree shots.
Weta coined the term "bigature" for the 72 large miniatures produced for the film, in reference to their extreme size. Out of around six of the shooting crews, there was one specifically devoted to filming on the miniatures, working continuously for years until the end of The Return of the King. Such miniatures include the 1:4 scale for Helm's Deep, which alongside Khazad-dûm and Osgiliath, was one of the first built. Most sets were constructed to allow compositing with the models and matte paintings, and also built in sections to make them easier to travel with, as the miniatures were not built in the studio where they would later be shot. Each of these "bigatures" were required to have an extreme amount of detail, as the cameras were filming within inches of the masterpieces in hopes of using cinematography to make the sets look as realistic as possible. Notable examples include the Argonath, Minas Tirith, the tower and caverns of Isengard, Barad-dûr, the trees of Lothlórien and Fangorn Forest and the Black Gate. Alex Funke led the motion control camera rigs, and John Baster and Mary Maclahlan led the building of the miniatures. The miniatures unit worked more than any other special effects crew, labouring for over 1,000 days.
Creatures such as trolls, the Watcher in the Water, the Balrog, the Ents, the Fellbeasts, the Wargs, the Mûmakil and Shelob were created entirely with computer-generated imagery. Creatures would spend months of creation and variation as sketches before approved designs were sculpted into five-foot maquettes and scanned into a computer. Animators would then rig skeletons and muscles before animation and final detailed colouring scanned from painted maquettes. Treebeard had a digital face composited upon the original animatronic, which was scanned for the digital model of his longshots.
Along with the creatures, Weta also created highly realistic digital doubles for many miniature longshots, as well as numerous stunts, most notably Legolas. These doubles were scanned from having actors perform movements in a motion-capture suit, and with additional details created using ZBrush. There are even morphs between the doubles and actors at times. Horses also performed with mo-cap points on them, although deaths are keyframe animation.
Jackson considered doing Gollum as a puppet, a practical suit or a mixture of makeup and CG. Indeed, an early shot of Gollum being tortured was a makeup job, replaced by CGI due to "wobbly fingers." Motion Capture was already experimented with (having been used in The Phantom Menace previously) for the Cave Troll, and after reviewing Andy Serkis' audition tape, it was decided to motion-capture his role. Weta began animating Gollum in late 1998, using a generic human muscle system, to convince New Line Cinema they could achieve it. Andy Serkis played Gollum by providing his voice and movements on set, as well as performing within the motion capture suit. His scenes were filmed twice, with and without him. A team led by Randy Cook performed the animation using both motion capture data and manual recreation of Serkis' facial reference. Gollum's CG model was also redesigned during 2001, now using a subdivision surface model instead of the NURBS model for Fellowship (a similar rebuild was also done for the digital doubles of the lead actors), when Serkis was cast as Sméagol, Gollum's form before he is cursed by the One Ring, so as to give the impression that Serkis as Sméagol transforms into the CG Gollum. The original model can still be glimpsed briefly in the first film. Over Christmas 2001, the crew proceeded to reanimate all the previous shots accordingly within two months. Another problem was that the crew realized that the cast performed better in the versions of the film with Serkis. In the end, the CG Gollum was often animated on top of these scenes and Serkis would be painted out. Due to Gollum's not being human, shots such as him crawling down a sheer cliff were shot with no live reference. Serkis also did motion-capture for the character which would drive the body of the model, whilst animators did all fingers and facial animation. Gino Acevedo supervised realistic skin tones, which for the first time used subsurface scattering shader, taking four hours per frame to render. Render time refers to the amount of time it took the computer to process the image into a usable format; it does not include the amount of time it took the texture artists to "draw" the frame. The hair dynamics of CG Gollum in The Two Towers were generated using Maya Cloth. Because of its technical limitations, Weta subsequently moved to the Syflex system for The Return of the King. A debate ensued on the fidelty of Gollum to Andy's on-stage performance, but Randall Cook clarified that while Andy should be considered the "main author" of the performance, he was nonetheless assisted and at times replaced entirely by the work of the animators.
Because they were turned to wraith-like versions of their former terrible selves, tall, slim actors wearing prosthetics and costumes were used to portray the Nazgûl or "Ringwraiths". Filmed on a studio set, the setting and appearances of the Ringwraiths were later edited to look chaotic and terrible. Jackson had considered making the wraiths and their horses (initially concieved of as ghoulish, undead horses) CGI, as well as some of the Orcs, but could not afford it. Though 2D effects were used to create the characters and atmosphere, 3D effects were utilized to create the final scenes we see in the film. Weathertop, the ancient ruin site in which the hobbits first encounter the Ringwraiths face-to-face, was filmed using computer graphics effects, but the action scenes were filmed in a studio. Later on, the scenes were merged using digital effects.
Besides Weathertop, many of the other scenes in The Lord of the Rings trilogy were shot in this way, first by filming the scenery or set miniatures, then the actors on a studio set, and merging the two together. An example of this is in the Mines of Moria, when the Fellowship is fighting the Cave-troll in Balin's Tomb, and again when the Fellowship is on the Khazad-dûm stairs and bridge. Gandalf has his own particular scene with computer graphics as he grapples with the Balrog as they fall to their deaths. New Line had wanted to keep the number of complex VFX shots down, expressing doubts about Gollum and the "scary" Galadriel and asking to cut the Watcher in the Water out of the film after Jackson hastily added it back into the script. Shots of a slimey Balrog for The Two Towers were not finished due to budget constraints.
Christoper Hery (ILM), Ken McGaugh and Joe Letteri (both Weta and previously ILM) received a 2003 Academy Award, Scientific or Technical for implementing the BSSRDF technique used for Gollum's skin in a production environment. Henrik Wann Jensen (Stanford University), Stephen Robert Marschner (Cornell University and previously Stanford University), and Pat Hanrahan (Stanford University) (but not the fourth co-author Marc Levoy), who developed BSSRDF, won another the same year.
Weta developed MASSIVE, a first-of-its-kind crowd simulation computer program used to create automatic battle sequences rather than individually animate every soldier. Stephen Regelous developed the system in 1996, originally to create the battle scenes for The Hobbit. The system creates a large number of choices for each software agent to pick when inside a digital arena. Catherine Thiel provided the movements of each type of soldier, like the unique fighting styles (designed by Tony Wolf) or fleeing. To add to this, digital environments were also created for the simulations. MASSIVE also features Grunt, a memory-conservative special purpose renderer, which was used for scenes containing as many as 200,000 agents and several million polygons. The Pelennor Fields scenes also contains "multi-body agents" in the form of a 5 × 5 grid of Orcs.
While Jackson insisted on generally using miniatures, sometimes shots would get too difficult for that, primarily with the digital characters. Sometimes natural elements like cloud, dust and fire (which was used as the electronic data for the Wraithworld scenes and the Balrog) would be composited, and natural environments were composited to create the Pelennor Fields. To give a "painterly" look to the films, cinematographer Peter Doyle worked on every scene within the computer to strengthen colours and add extra mood and tone to the proceedings. Gold was tinted to Hobbiton, whilst cooler colours were strengthened into Lothlórien, Moria and Helm's Deep. Such a technique took 2–3 weeks to do, and allowed some freedom with the digital source for some extra editing.
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King required the help of the company Next Limit Technologies and their software RealFlow to simulate the lava in Mount Doom. A technical overview of the special effects used in the film series is given by Matt Aitken et al. (2004).
The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers movie poster (2002)
Jackson initially intended to have all three films edited at once by himself and editor Jamie Selkirk. This soon proved too ambitious, and Selkirk (who continued to act as the supervising editor) hired a different editor for the first two films: John Gilbert, who worked some reels to be shown to distributors during the shoot, would edit the first film, Michael J. Horton the second and Selkirk the third. Many others worked in the editing department throughout, including Jabez Olssen and Annie Collins, who acquired co-editor credits for The Two Towers and The Return of the King, respectivelly.
Initially, they were all intended to cut them simultaneously, but after a month, overseeing three edits became too much for Jackson, and he focused on editing the first film, while the other editors created assemblies of the other films. Daily rushes would often last up to four hours, with scenes being done throughout 1999 to 2002 for the rough (4½-hour) assemblies of the films. In total, 1,828 kilometres (5,997,000 ft) of film was edited down to the 686 minutes (11 hours and 26 minutes) of extended edition running time. This was the final area of shaping of the films, when Jackson realized that sometimes the best scripting could be redundant on screen, as he picked apart scenes every day from multiple takes.
Jackson contractually shared final-cut rights with Robert Shaye, and although Shaye never invoked his right to alter the cut, he did have certain demands of the cut. He watched dailies and  seeing a four-hour cut of the first film, he demanded that Jackson reinstate a prologue that was shot, but cut out of the film. Jackson created a nine-minute prologue that Shaye deemed too long, and he disapproved of using Cate Blanchett's voice for the narration, but ultimately acquiesced to Jackson. He would later insist on a prologue to recap the story going into The Two Towers, insisting that each film be a satisfying standalone experience, but relented, as Jackson made the films more of a continuous saga.
Shaye requested that the first film to be "under 2.5 hours", which Jackson "ignored" with a 2.9-hour theatrical cut. For the next film, Shaye insisted on under three hours, which Jackson accomplished, but for the third film Jackson exceeded the required length, and had actually been granted additional funds to improve and expand the VFX and pickups to "end the trilogy on a high-note."
Shaye insisted that the films be PG-13. During development, Jackson came up with the idea of creating extended cuts for Laserdisc and DVD which would allow to reinstate scenes cut for length, curating the pace of the films to the requirements of the small-screen, and adding back whatever violence would have to be cut to acquire a PG-13 rating for theaters. He would shoot with the aim of the first cut "getting an R-rating", trim some shots and get PG-13 for theaters "but just barely, as it were." Ultimately, the extended cuts would be made by July each year, overlapping with post-production on the next film, and while more graphic than the theatrical, would retain the PG-13 rating.
The Two Towers was always acknowledged by the crew as the most difficult film to make, as "it had no beginning or end", and had the additional problem of inter-cutting storylines appropriately. Jackson even continued editing the film when that part of the schedule officially ended, resulting in some scenes, including the reforging of Andúril, Gollum's back-story, and Saruman's demise, being moved to The Return of the King. Later, Saruman's demise was controversially cut from the cinema edition (but included in the extended edition) when Jackson felt it was not starting the third film effectively enough. As with all parts of the third film's post-production, editing was very chaotic. The first time Jackson actually saw the completed film was at the Wellington premiere.
Many filmed scenes remain unused, not included even in the Extended Editions. The main reason they weren't included was because they tended to change the plot from Tolkien's original storyline, therefore being unfaithful to the books.
Peter Jackson has stated that he would like to include some of these unused scenes in a future 'Ultimate Edition' home video release (probably High Definition) of the film trilogy. They will not be re-inserted into the movies but available for viewing separately. This edition will also include outtakes.
Jackson and Walsh wanted Howard Shore to score the films when they noticed they were using many of his existing scores as a temporary music track for their animatics, although they had also used pieces from The Last of the Mohicans and Braveheart "for the more epic scenes." New Line suggested James Horner for the score, but he couldn't commit to the long schedule.
They invited Shore to New Zealand shortly before principal photography began, and during his stay he composed an early version of the Shire theme, Frodo's theme and the Fellowship theme. He was officially hired in August 2000 and visited the set, met with Alan Lee, and watched the assembly cuts of films 1 and 3. Although the first film had some of its score done in Wellington, the trilogy's score was mostly recorded in Watford Town Hall and mixed at Abbey Road Studios. Jackson planned to advise the score for six weeks each year in London, although for The Two Towers he stayed for twelve.
The soundtrack is primarily played by the London Philharmonic Orchestra, and many soloists such as Ben Del Maestro, Enya, Elizabeth Fraser, Renee Fleming, Sir James Galway and Annie Lennox contributed. Even actors Billy Boyd, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Miranda Otto (extended cuts only for the latter two) and Peter Jackson (for a single gong sound in the second film) contributed to the score. Fran Walsh and Philippa Boyens also wrote the lyrics to various music and songs, which David Salo translated into Tolkien's languages. The third film's end song, "Into the West", was a tribute to a young filmmaker Jackson and Walsh befriended named Cameron Duncan, who died of cancer in 2003.
Shore composed a main theme for the Fellowship rather than many different character themes, and its strength and weaknesses in volume are depicted at different points in the trilogy. On top of that, individual themes were composed to represent different cultures. Infamously, the amount of music Shore had to write every day for the third film increased dramatically to around seven minutes.
Sound technicians spent the early part of the year trying to find the right sounds: animal sounds like tigers and walruses were bought. Sometimes human voices were used, such as Fran Walsh as the Nazgûl scream and David Farmer as some Warg howls. Some sounds were unexpected: a donkey screech is the Fell Beast, and the mûmakil roar comes from the beginning and end of a lion. In addition, there was ADR for most of the dialogue.
The technicians worked with New Zealand locals to get many of the sounds. They re-recorded sounds in abandoned tunnels for an echo-like effect in the Moria sequence. 10,000 New Zealand cricket fans provided the sound of the Uruk-hai army in The Two Towers, with Jackson acting as conductor during a single cricket break. They spent time recording sounds in a graveyard at night, and also had construction workers drop stone blocks for the sounds of boulders firing and landing in The Return of the King. Mixing generally took place between August and November at "The Film Mix", before Jackson commissioned building a new studio in 2003. Annoyingly, the building wasn't fully completed as they started mixing for The Return of the King.
Jackson and Walsh personally oversaw marketing for The Lord of the Rings. The online promotional trailer for the trilogy was first released on April 27, 2000 and shattered records for download hits, registering 1.7 million hits in the first 24 hours of its release. The trailer used a selection from the soundtrack for Braveheart, and The Shawshank Redemption among other cuts.
New Line suggested showing a trailer in Cannes. Jackson suggested an entire sequence, proposing the Helm's Deep set piece. New Line saw an early cut and then suggested adding glimpses at other parts of the story to bookend the sequence. Howard Shore was brought to New Zealand to record an entire segment of the score. The result was a 26 minute reel, which was very well received. The showing also included an area designed to look like Middle-earth. The success of the presentation (which was repeated in other venues) allowed New-Line to sign some of their foreign distributors (particularly from Germany, which offered a big tax break) on the second and third entry.
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring was released December 19, 2001. It grossed $47 million in its U.S. opening weekend and made around $871 million worldwide. A preview of The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers was attached at the end of the cinema release for the film.
A promotional trailer was later released. The trailer contained some music re-scored from the film Requiem for a Dream. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers was released 18 December 2002. It grossed $62 million in its first U.S. weekend and out-grossed its predecessor, grossing $926 million worldwide.
The promotional trailer for The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King was debuted exclusively before the New Line Cinema film Secondhand Lions on 23 September 23, 2003. Released 17 December 2003, its first U.S. weekend gross was $72 million, and became the second film (after Titanic) to gross over $1 billion worldwide.
Each film was at first released as standard two-disc editions containing previews of the next film. The success of these theatrical cuts brought about four-disc Special Extended Editions, with new editing, added special effects, scenes, and music. The two additional discs accompanying each movie contain an exhaustive documentary series about the making of the films; the six parts total are organized as "From Book to Vision", "From Vision to Reality", "The Journey Continues", "The Battle for Middle-earth Begins", "The War of the Ring", and "The Passing of an Age". The documentaries within were directed by Michael Pellerin.
The extended editions were issued as follows:
The Special Extended DVD Editions also has in-sleeve maps of the Fellowship's travels. They have also played at movie theaters, most notably for a 16 December 2003 marathon screening culminating in a midnight screening of the third film.
On 29 August 2006 both versions were put together in a Limited Edition "branching" version, plus a new feature-length documentary by Costa Botes. The complete trilogy was released in a 6-disc set on November 14, 2006.
The six-year task of conceptualizing Middle-earth and producing the films led to a great number of published film guides, covering many facets:
The Lord of the Rings film trilogy is verified to be the currently highest grossing motion picture trilogy worldwide of all time, besting such other film franchises as the two Star Wars Trilogies and The Godfather. The films also tied a record for the total number of Academy Awards won.
The majority of critics have also praised the trilogy, with Kenneth Turan of the Los Angeles Times writing that "the trilogy will not soon, if ever, find its equal". In particular, performances from Ian McKellen, Sean Astin, Sean Bean, Andy Serkis, Bernard Hill, Viggo Mortensen and Miranda Otto stood out for many in audience polls, although the entire cast was well praised and won awards of Best Acting Ensemble. The special effects for the battles and Gollum were also praised. Overall, the films received a positive 93% critics rating on rottentomatoes.com, (91% for TFotR, 95% for TTT, 93% for TRotK) a consensus amongst film critics.
The trilogy appears in many "Top 10" film lists, such as the Dallas-Fort Worth Film Critics Association's Top 10 Films, Time Magazine's All-Time 100 Movies, James Berardinelli's Top 100, and The Screen Directory's "Top Ten Films of All Time" (considering the trilogy as "one epic film split into three parts"). In 2007, USA Today named the trilogy as the most important films of the past 25 years.
In 2006, all the three films were in the Top 10 of IMDb's famous Top 250 list. As of September 3, 2007, The Return of the King stood in the 10th place, The Fellowship of the Ring in the 17th place and The Two Towers in the 25th place, a consensus amongst voters. The trilogy is constantly increasing and decreasing its rating due to the many voters, and is the only movie trilogy in the site that has all its three movies in the Top 25 of the list (this feat has since been matched only by Christopher Nolan's Batman Trilogy), a firm display of The Lord of the Rings film trilogy's popularity and reputation as the best trilogy of all time. The Fellowship of the Ring is the third most voted movie on IMDb (only after The Shawshank Redemption and The Dark Knight ), with an average of 814,515 votes as of December 16, 2013. The Return of the King and The Two Towers, respectively, follow closely after.
Overall, The Lord of the Rings trilogy is well praised and considered by many the best trilogy of all time and the best movie (considering the trilogy as a whole unique epic) of the Twenty-First Century.
The following movies were all released with but a few years of each other:
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King movie poster (2003)
The three films together were nominated for a total of 30 Academy Awards, of which they won 17 and two Sci-Tech awards, a record for any movie trilogy. On its own, The Return of the King tied the previous record of eleven Academy Awards and won in every category it was nominated in, an extremely rare feat. Return of the King also tied a record for the total number of Academy Awards won, 11, with Ben-Hur and Titanic, plus two further Academy Awards at the previous Sci-Tech Award Ceremony.
Although the three films failed to win any acting awards from the Academy, Ian McKellen earned the series its sole Academy acting nomination for the 2001 release of The Fellowship of the Ring.
As well as Academy Awards, each film of the trilogy scored MTV Movie Awards' Best Film, and the Hugo Awards for Best Dramatic Presentation categories. The first and third films also won the Best Film BAFTAs. The films of the trilogy were nominated for ten Golden Globe Awards, winning four.  It must also be noted that the soundtrack for The Two Towers did not receive a nomination because of the rule prohibiting a soundtrack including music from a previous soundtrack to be eligible for nomination. This rule was overturned in time for The Return of the King to receive the Oscar for Best Music Score.
The series drew acclaim from within the industry, including from the film directors Steven Spielberg, James Cameron and George Lucas. John Boorman, who once wrote a script for a Lord of the Rings film, said he was happy his own version was unmade as Jackson's films was "of such scope and magnitude that it can only be compared to the building of the great Gothic cathedrals." Forrest J. Ackerman, who once presented a film treatment to Tolkien, and appeared on Jackson's Bad Taste said his pitch "could never have been given the grand treatment that Peter Jackson afforded it." Arthur Rankin said Jackson was making "marvellous films." Harvey Weinstein said they "had the next Star Wars."
However, some filmmakers were more critical. Heinz Edelmann, who pitched the idea of an animated feature when United Artists considered shooting the films with the Beatles, thought it was "badly directed." Ralph Bakshi, who made an animated film based on the first half of the trilogy, didn't watch the films, but was told that Jackson's film was derivative of his. Ahead of the films' release, he said he did not "understand it" but that he does "wish it to be a good movie." Later, he begrudged Saul Zaentz for not notifying him of the live-action film, and said that Jackson had his film to study and therefore had "a little easier time than I did." Afterwards, he grumbled that Jackson "didn't understand" Tolkien and created "special effects garbage" to sell toys, as well as being derivative of his own film, comments which puzzled Jackson. Bakshi further blamed Jackson for not acknowledging the influence that the animated film had on him, saying (falsely) that he denied having seen Bakshi's film at all until being forced to mention him, at which point (according to Bakshi) he mentioned Bakshi's influence "only once" as "PR bolony." However, he did praise Jackson's special effects and, in 2015, even apologized for some of his remarks. Bakshi's animator Mike Ploog and writer Peter Beagle both praised the live-action film.
While the films were generally well received, some readers of the book decried certain changes made in the adaptation, including changes in tone and themes; various changes made to characters such as Aragorn, Arwen, Denethor, Faramir and Gimli, as well as to the main protagonist Frodo himself; changes made to events (such as the Elves participating at the Battle of Helm's Deep, and Faramir taking the hobbits to Osgiliath); and the deletion of the penultimate chapter of Tolkien's work, "The Scouring of the Shire", a part he felt thematically necessary. For example, Wayne G. Hammond, a noted Tolkien scholar, has said of the first two films:
Some fans of the book who disagreed with such changes have released their fan edits of the films, which removed many of the changes to bring them closer to the original. The theatrical version of The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers has received this treatment, and a combined 8-hour version of the trilogy exists, called "The Lord of the Rings: The Purist Edition".
Supporters of the film trilogy assert that it is a worthy interpretation of the book, most changes stemming from the filmmakers putting the book into a modern context; connected to this is their perceived need for developing characters further. It is important to note that many who worked on the trilogy are fans of the book, including Christopher Lee, who alone among the cast had actually met Tolkien in person, and Boyens once noted that no matter what, it is simply their interpretation of the book. Jackson once said that to simply summarise the story on screen would be a mess, and in his own words, "Sure, it's not really The Lord of the Rings... but it could still be a pretty damn cool movie." Other fans also claim that despite any changes, they do not matter within the context of stand-alone films, and nonetheless they serve as a tribute to the book and yet appeal to those who have not read it, and even lead some to. The Encyclopedia of Arda's Movie Guide states:
Because the films were shot together and then edited into three separate films released theatrically over a span of three successive years, a significant number of fans and critics have come to regard the trilogy as a single film. They argue that as with the book, which was meant to be a single novel but was first released in three parts for marketing and budget reasons (leading to the common but erroneous label of "trilogy"); Jackson's trilogy is one long 10-hour film. When Time magazine placed the trilogy in its top 100 list it was done under a single heading.
The release of the films saw a surge of interest in The Lord of the Rings and Tolkien's other works, vastly increasing his impact on popular culture. For example, in 2003, the BBC conducted a poll to find the UK's favourite book, and The Lord of the Rings won, at the height of anticipation for the third film. Despite higher sales, it was rumoured that the Tolkien family became split on the trilogy, with Christopher Tolkien and Simon Tolkien feuding over whether or not it was a good idea to adapt. Christopher Tolkien has since denied these claims saying, "My own position is that The Lord of the Rings is peculiarly unsuitable to transformation into visual dramatic form. The suggestions that have been made that I 'disapprove' of the films, vent to the extent of thinking ill of those with whom I may differ, are wholly without foundation." He added that he had never "expressed any such feeling". Jackson is unsure Christopher ever saw the films.
Capitalizing on the trilogy's success, a musical adaptation of the book was launched in Toronto in 2006, but it closed after mostly poor reviews. The success of the films has also spawned the production of video games and many other kinds of merchandise.
Jackson has become his own mogul like Steven Spielberg, and has befriended some industry heavyweights like Frank Darabont and James Cameron. He founded his own video-game company, Wingnut Interactive. He was also finally given a chance to remake King Kong in 2005; although it was not as successful, it nevertheless still received critical acclaim. On a personal level, he found it hard to leave the trilogy and still keeps the Bag End set (as a guesthouse) and Rivendell miniatures. He has also become a "favourite son" of New Zealand. Howard Shore also found leaving difficult, and in 2004 toured with The Lord of the Rings Symphony, consisting of two hours of the score.
New Zealand's profile and tourism industry have seen a massive boost from the trilogy, with many tourists inspired to visit by the trilogy and able to o on sightseeing tours of locations. The country markets itself as the 'home of Middle-earth'.
The trilogy has also renewed interest in the fantasy film genre. Around the same time, fellow New Zealand director Andrew Adamson began The Chronicles of Narnia film series, credited by many to be stylistically influenced by The Lord of the Rings, being also shot in New Zealand and having art direction from Weta Workshop, as well as its own extended edition. MGM wished to make an adaptation of The Hobbit in co-operation with New Line Cinema, although Jackson was temporarily out of the project due to disputes over remunerations with New Line.
Motion capture was used for characters in King Kong, I, Robot and Pirates of the Caribbean. Kingdom of Heaven is one of many epics to use the MASSIVE technology.
The films had spawned a three-part prequel, made by Jackson and adapted from The Hobbit, as well as an animated spinoff, War of the Rohirrim. Amazon's The Rings of Power show is likewise a prequel to the live-action films.
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring is a fantasy adventure film, directed by Peter Jackson. It is the first part of The Lord of the Rings trilogy of films, based on the best-selling novel by J.R.R. Tolkien. The film tells the story of young hobbit Frodo Baggins who, accompanied by eight companions, embarks on a journey to destroy the One Ring in the fires of Mount Doom.
The screenplay was first started by Fran Walsh, Philippa Boyens, and Peter Jackson in 1997, and eventually it was reaching completion in tandem with its filming, on location in New Zealand. The film had a budget of about $180 million U.S. dollars, principal photography took 14 months, and post production continued long after that. It was also a great box office success, making over $871 million worldwide and was the fifth highest-grossing film of all time at the time of its release (behind Titanic, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace and Jurassic Park). After the 2011 re-release of The Lion King and the 2012 re-release of Finding Nemo, it is currently the 68th highest-grossing film of all time.
The film is the first Middle-earth film adaptation to be released, and the fourth in Middle-earth chronology.
Sauron, the Dark Lord, has awakened and threatens to conquer Middle-earth. To stop this ancient evil once and for all, Frodo Baggins must destroy the One Ring in the fires of Mount Doom. Men, Hobbits, a wizard, an Elf, and a Dwarf form a fellowship to help him on his quest.
He travels from his home in the Shire with fellow hobbits Sam, Merry, and Pippin. They go to the town of Bree, where the group meets a shadowy figure known only as Strider. Pursued by Black Riders, they must get to Rivendell. Upon their arrival a council is convened, which decides the only course of action must be to take The Ring to Mordor and destroy it. Frodo is joined by his friends Sam, Merry, Pippin, Aragorn, and Gandalf; and newcomers Gimli, Legolas, and Boromir. They try to cross over the Misty Mountains by way of the Pass of Caradhras, but Saruman's magic forces them to turn back and travel underneath, through the mines of Moria. It is here that the Fellowship encounters a Balrog. Gandalf challenges the Balrog, and falls from the Bridge of Khazad-dûm into a chasm, presumably to his death. The Fellowship (excluding Gandalf) then travel to the country of the Elves in Lothlórien, and down the Great River on boats, where the company splits during an attack by Uruk-hai. Boromir is killed, and Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas split off to track the Uruk-hai who have captured Merry and Pippin. Frodo and Sam head east in the direction of Mordor.
Gandalf removes the Ring from the fire
Following his 111th birthday party, Bilbo Baggins gives the Ring to his nephew, Frodo. After some time, the wizard Gandalf the Grey begins to suspect Bilbo's magic ring may be The One Ring, lost for over three-thousand years, and rides to Minas Tirith for discernment and confirmation of this suspicion - he is taken to a small room filled with many books and historical documents. After poring over old documents for months, he finds the account of the finding of the One Ring. Gandalf learns that the Ring has several lines of Black Speech written on it that are only visible if the Ring is heated with fire. He returns to Bag End only to learn that the ring Frodo has been holding onto is, in fact, Sauron's One Ring. Gandalf tells Frodo to leave the Shire immediately with the Ring. Gandalf catches Samwise Gamgee eavesdropping by a window and decides to send him along with Frodo. Gandalf rides to Isengard to meet with Saruman the White who reveals to Gandalf that the Nazgûl, or Ringwraiths, have left Minas Morgul to capture the Ring and kill whoever carries it. Gandalf attempts to flee to warn Frodo, but Saruman, having already been corrupted to Sauron's cause, shuts the doors and attempts to sway Gandalf into joining him and Sauron. Angered at Saruman's betrayal, Gandalf refuses, which leads to a fight between the two. Saruman defeats Gandalf and imprisons him atop his tower Orthanc. Gandalf is then forced to watch as Saruman, following Sauron's orders, commands the Orcs of Isengard to construct weapons of war and produce a new breed of Orc fighters called the Uruk-Hai.
While traveling to the town of Bree, Frodo and Sam are soon joined by fellow hobbits, Merry and Pippin. After encountering a Ringwraith on the road, they manage to reach Bree only to discover that Gandalf hasn't arrived yet. Instead, Frodo meets a man called "Strider", who agrees to lead them to Rivendell. They continue traveling and spend the night on the hill of Weathertop, where they are attacked by the Nazgûl. Strider fights off the Ringwraiths, but Frodo is grievously wounded by one of the wraiths that stabbed him with a Morgulblade, which will cause him to turn into a wraith if not attended to with the proper care. While chased by the Nazgûl, Frodo is taken by the Elf Arwen to the Elven haven of Rivendell, and healed by her father, Elrond (the leader of the Elves at the battle of Mount Doom three-thousand years before). Arwen also uses her magic to cut off the pursuing Ringwraiths at the Ford of Bruinen, summoning a surge of water that sweeps the Ringwraiths away.
The Fellowship is formed in Rivendell
In Rivendell, Frodo finds Gandalf, who explains why he didn't meet them at Bree and that he had escaped Orthanc and Saruman's clutches with the help of an eagle. Later, Elrond calls a council to decide what should be done with the Ring. Elrond warns against keeping the Ring in Rivendell for long, knowing that the Elven realm could come under attack from both Mordor and Isengard. The Ring can only be destroyed by throwing it into the fires of Mount Doom, where it was forged. Frodo volunteers to take the Ring to Mount Doom and is accompanied by his hobbit friends and Gandalf, as well as Strider, who is revealed to be Aragorn, the rightful heir to the throne of Gondor. Also travelling with them are the Elf Legolas, the Dwarf Gimli, and Boromir, the son of the Steward of Gondor. Together they comprise and become the Fellowship of the Ring.
Durin's Bane about to step onto the bridge
The Fellowship sets out and tries to pass over the Misty Mountains by the mountain pass of Caradhras. Saruman creates an enormous storm, triggering avalanches and heavy snowfall, which nearly wipes out the Fellowship. At Gimli's insistence, they decide to seek safety and travel under the mountain through The Mines of Moria. Frodo agrees, but while travelling they are attacked by the Watcher in the Water, forcing them to travel through the mines. Inside, they encounter Goblins and a cave troll in the Chamber of Mazarbul, and encounter a Balrog, an ancient demon of fire and shadow, at the Bridge of Khazad-dûm. Gandalf faces the Balrog on the bridge and manages to send it plunging into the abyss below, but the monster drags him down with it. The group escapes the underground realm and flees into the Elven realm of Lothlórien, where they are sheltered by its rulers, Galadriel and her husband Celeborn. That night, Frodo meets Galadriel, who tells him that it is his destiny to handle the Ring and ultimately destroy it. Before they leave, Galadriel gives Frodo the Phial of Galadriel, and the other members also receive gifts from them. Taking the straight path to Mordor, they travel on the River Anduin towards Parth Galen.
TheUruk-hai arrive at Amon Hen
After landing at Parth Galen, Boromir tries to take the Ring from Frodo, believing it to be the only way to save his realm, but Frodo escapes him. Aragorn encounters Frodo, but unlike Boromir, Aragorn manages to resist the Ring's temptation and chooses not to take it. Knowing that the Ring's temptation will be too strong for him or anyone else that is in the fellowship, Frodo decides to leave them and go to Mordor alone. Meanwhile, the rest of the Fellowship are attacked by Uruk-hai, who Saruman had ordered to hunt down the Fellowship and take the Ring. Aragorn and the fellowship distract the Uruk-hai so that Frodo can escape; Merry and Pippin, also realizing that Frodo is leaving, distract the orcs, allowing Frodo to escape. As Boromir rushes to the aid of the two hobbits, he is mortally wounded by the Uruk commander Lurtz. Before Lurtz can finish off Boromir, Aragorn arrives and attacks Lurtz, decapitating him after a short but brutal fight. As he lies dying, Boromir regrets having attempted to steal the Ring and is forgiven by Aragorn. Merry and Pippin are then captured, prompting Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas to begin their pursuit of the orcs with the intent of rescuing the hobbits - leaving Frodo to continue his quest. Frodo returns to the banks of the river and begins rowing across when Sam appears and swims out after him, insisting he has promised Gandalf he would look after Frodo. Frodo accepts Sam's presence and together they continue their journey through the hills of Emyn Muil.
Characters
Locations
The Fellowship of the Ring makes extensive use of digital, practical and makeup special effects throughout, as well as computer effects harnessed by Weta Workshop's sibling group Weta Digital, which Jackson helped found. Many documentaries found in "Part Two" From Vision to Reality" (the fourth disc of the Extended Edition release) cover this area of the production process.
Personnel who worked on the special effects included Andrew Lesnie, Stephen Regelous, Paul Lasaine, Jeremy Bennett, Jon Labrie, Alex Funke, Brian Van't Hul, Gray Horsfield, Mark O. Forker of Digital Domain, and overall creative supervisor Richard Taylor.
One noticeable effect appearing in most scenes involves setting a proper scale so that the characters are all the proper height. Elijah Wood, who plays Frodo, is 5 ft 6 in (1.68 m) tall in real life; but the character of Frodo Baggins is barely four feet tall. Many different tricks were used to cast the hobbits and Gimli as diminutive. Large and small stunt doubles were used in certain scenes, while entire duplicates of certain sets (especially Bag End in Hobbiton) were built at two different scales, so that the characters would appear to be the appropriate size. At one point in the film Frodo runs along a corridor in Bag End, followed by Gandalf. Elijah Wood and Ian McKellen were filmed in separate versions of the same corridor, built at two different scales, and a fast camera pan conceals the edit between the two. Forced perspective was also employed so that it would look as though the short hobbits were interacting with taller Men and Elves. Kneeling was used to great effect for size compensation, to the surprise of many, as were over-sized body costumes (called "Big Rigs") and midget actors wearing masks of the Hobbits' faces.
For the battle between the Last Alliance and the forces of Sauron that begins the film, an elaborate CGI animation system, called Massive, was developed that would allow thousands of individual animated "characters" in the program to act independently. This helped give the illusion of realism to the battle sequences.
Conceptualization of fictional locations such as Khazad-dûm, the Argonath, Rivendell, and Isengard involved the use of many miniature sets and also "Bigatures", closer to life-size.
Arwen faces the Ringwraiths at Bruinen (Rangitikei River)
A list of filming locations, sorted by appearance order in the movie:
A small but vocal minority of admirers of the original book raised some concerns when the film was released, complaining that the movie's screenplay made a number of changes to Tolkien's story. Many of these protests seemed to be rather minor concerns and were largely ignored by general movie going audiences. However, more than a few people expressed surprise when the movie's plot diverged from that of the book in what might be considered more fundamental ways.
Other fans explain that, compared to the many film adaptations of literary works over the years, many of which bear little or no resemblance to the source material, this film and the remainder of the trilogy are still very faithful adaptations, with some changes necessary due to the differing limitations of film.
Some fans also felt that movie producers missed the linguistic basis of the work (as Tolkien invented the world to bring his languages alive and not the other way around):
In particular, Namárië, Galadriel's lament in Lórien that begins "Ai! laurië lantar lassi súrinen", did not appear in the film, although Tolkien considered it one of the highest points of The Fellowship of the Ring. A few lines of the poem do, however, make it into the soundtrack at the departure from Lórien. Other samples of Elvish language from the books are treated similarly. However, Elvish (most often Sindarin) is spoken extensively in the film, with and without subtitles. The Elvish lines were, for the most part, devised specifically for the film version, sometimes based on English text written by Tolkien.
The movie features numerous books and artifacts with Tengwar inscriptions. Even though they were researched for accuracy, they still show a couple of peculiarities and inconsistencies not found in Tolkien's own Tengwar samples.
Another idiosyncrasy of the films is that Hobbit writing is shown in the Latin alphabet, while the books state that the Hobbits used the Tengwar. However, the Latin calligraphy is written in such a way that it bears resemblance to the Tengwar, including tehtar above their corresponding vowels. This refers visually to the Tengwar while allowing the audience to immediately recognise the text.
One can perform a comparative analysis of the film and the book by comparing scenes to chapters and comparing time to pages. Those chapters that have low pages per minute values are chapters that have been given focus in the movie, and the converse is true as well.
In 2002 the movie won four Academy Awards out of thirteen nominations. The winning categories were for
The other nominated categories were:
After the close of its theater run, it ranked in the top ten highest-grossing movies worldwide, with takings of $860,700,000 USA dollars from world-wide theatrical box office receipts (movie ticket sales).
(Source: IMDB Top Movies Chart).
It has been voted Best Fantasy Film On Earth by movie fans.
The movie has also been released on videotape and DVD, with some editions having additional footage and commentary not included in the theatrical release edition. Notable among the restored scenes is additional footage of a smiling Galadriel bestowing gifts on the members of the fellowship. In the theatrical version, she appeared dark and brooding. On Tuesday, November 12, 2002, Special Extended DVD Edition of Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring was released, containing 208 minutes (3 hours, 28 minutes) of footage.
On June 14, 2011, the digitally remastered version of Extended Edition of the film was re-released in theaters.
The extended editions of The Fellowship of the Ring and the second movie, The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers had limited theatrical runs in selected cities worldwide in late 2003, during the run-up to the release of the final film, The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.
Followed by:
Previous version:
The film grossed approximately $871.5 million in box office (not including DVD and VHS sales), at an unadjusted-for-inflation rate. Adjusted for inflation, the total box office for this film is $1,075,835,513.
The Fellowship of the Ring was the lowest-grossing film of the Lord of the Rings film trilogy.
It was the second highest-grossing movie of 2001 behind Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, making it the only film of the trilogy not to be the highest-grossing movie of the year it was released.
The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers is the second film in The Lord of the Rings film trilogy, directed by Peter Jackson. It is an adaptation of the book The Two Towers, the second part of the three-volume novel The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien, although some of the book's events are held over to the third and final movie, The Return of the King. The film was very well received critically, winning two Academy Awards, and was an enormous box-office success, making over $936 million worldwide in its initial release, making it the highest grossing movie of 2002 and was the third highest-grossing film of all time at the time (behind Titanic and Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone). It was the second Middle-earth film adaptation to be released, and the fifth chronologically.
The surviving members of the Fellowship have split into three groups. Frodo and Sam face many perils on their continuing quest to save Middle-earth by destroying the One Ring in the fires of Mount Doom. Merry and Pippin escape from the Orcs and must convince the Ents to join the battle against evil. Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas encounter a mysteriously transformed Gandalf and battle Saruman's army at Helm's Deep.
In the Mines of Moria, the wizard Gandalf the Grey battles the Balrog of Morgoth on the Bridge of Khazad-dum in an attempt to allow the Fellowship of the Ring to escape. Gandalf casts the Balrog into the chasm below, but the demon pulls him down with it; the Fellowship believes he is dead, but he continues to fight the creature as they fall down into a huge subterranean lake in the depths of the Earth. 
Days later, the Hobbit Frodo Baggins continues his journey with his loyal friend, Sam, through the hills of Emyn Muil. One night, the creature Gollum, wishing to retrieve “his precious” (the One Ring), attacks them. The Hobbits capture him, but Frodo understands the burden of the Ring and takes pity on the creature. Realizing they are in need of a guide, Frodo persuades Gollum to lead them to the Black Gate of Mordor.
In Rohan, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli are in pursuit of the Uruk-hai, who are journeying back to Isengard with the hobbits Merry and Pippin as their captives. Meanwhile, Théoden, the King of Rohan, is being held under a trance by Gríma Wormtongue, who is secretly in the service of Saruman the White. Saruman is working towards the demise of Rohan. Orcs and the Dunlendings, incited by Saruman, are freely roaming the land, burning villages, massacring the Rohirrim people and destroying crops. In an attack on one of the villages, a mother sends her two children on horseback to Edoras to warn the King of the attacks. Recently, the King's only son Théodred fell victim to them, left mortally wounded in an ambush. Théoden's nephew Éomer interrogates Gríma, labelling him a spy. Gríma, however, convinces the King to banish Éomer "on pain of death" for undermining his authority. Éomer sets forth to gather the remaining loyal men of the Rohirrim and leave Rohan. That night, Éomer's army ambush and kill the party of Uruk-hai, allowing Merry and Pippin to flee into the forests of Fangorn. There, they meet Treebeard, the oldest of the Ents of Middle-earth.
Frodo, Gollum and Sam watch the Black Gate
Frodo, Sam and Gollum traverse the Dead Marshes, evading a Nazgûl riding on a winged beast. When they finally reach the Black Gate, they find it shut and heavily guarded by Orcs. However, as they watch, an Easterling contingent arrives and the gate opens for them to enter. Sensing a chance, Frodo and Sam get ready to move. However, Gollum, who confirms their fears of capture and insists that any attempt to get in via the Black Gate will only end with the One Ring returning to Sauron, holds them back. He then reveals that there is another way into Mordor, hidden and unguarded. Sam is immediately suspicious, but Frodo gives him the benefit of the doubt, pointing out that he has remained loyal thus far.
The Rohirrim attack the Uruk-hai of Saruman
Éomer later encounters Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli in Rohan. He tells the group that there were no survivors of the battle with the Uruk-hai the previous night, indicating that Merry and Pippin were accidentally slain. Upon arriving at the battle site, Aragorn picks up the tracks of the hobbits and the trio follows them into Fangorn. There they are approached and temporarily subdued by a wizard masked with shining white light. Initially fearing it is Saruman, the group are amazed when he reveals himself to be Gandalf reborn (after defeating the Balrog in a battle that cost him his life). Gandalf reveals that he is now known as Gandalf the White. The quartet proceed to Edoras, where they exorcise Saruman's hold on Théoden and banish Wormtongue. The now awakened Théoden has to come to terms with both his son's death and the threat of Saruman. Rather than risk open war and further harm to his people (especially after seeing the two exhausted children who finally arrived from the village), Théoden decides to flee to Helm's Deep, a large stronghold in the Mountains. Gandalf realises that Helm's Deep's defences will not survive the Uruk-Hai onslaught that is surely to come. He leaves to find Éomer, promising to return within five days with the 2,000 banished riders. As they lead the people of Edoras to Helm's Deep, Aragorn and Éowyn (Éomer's sister) form a close relationship. Aragorn tells Éowyn that Arwen, whom he loves, is leaving Middle-earth to be with her people in the Undying Lands. In the meantime, Wormtongue has fled to Orthanc and informs Saruman of a weakness in the outer wall of Helm's Deep, which Saruman and his army of 10,000 Uruk-hai plan to exploit. Saruman dispatches his army to Helm's Deep, ordering them to spare no one.
Different routes taken in The Two Towers in throughout Middle-earth. Routes shown in yellow (Merry & Pippin), green (Aragorn et al.) and blue (Frodo & Sam)
Having led the Hobbits south from the Black Gate to the land of Ithilien, Gollum is in turmoil, torn between his loyalty to Frodo and his all-consuming need for the Ring. The three travellers then play witness to an ambush of Haradrim by Rangers of Ithilien, who take Frodo and Sam prisoner. Meanwhile, on the journey to Helm's Deep, the Rohirrim are attacked by Saruman's Warg-riders. During the battle, Aragorn is thrown off a cliff into a fast-flowing river below: Théoden, Legolas, Gimli and the others believe him dead and journey on to Helm's Deep. Elrond comes to his daughter Arwen and implores her to leave on the ships departing Middle-earth, escaping the troubles of these lands. When she refuses, Elrond, in a devastating speech, uses his powers of foresight and reveals the darkness of Arwen's future if she chooses to remain in Middle-earth with Aragorn. As he is mortal, Aragorn will eventually die even if he becomes King of Gondor, leaving Arwen to fade away with her grief when he is gone. Once again, Elrond pleads with her and she yields to him. As she leaves Rivendell, the words of Galadriel, concerning the plight of Men defying Sauron, come to Elrond in that moment. She questions whether the Elves should wash their hands of Middle-earth and points out that the Ring has maneuvered itself into the company of Men, which it can easily corrupt. Galadriel asks if they should abandon Men to their fate, even if it condemns Middle-earth to fall under Sauron's rule for all time.
Meanwhile, Frodo and Sam have been taken to Henneth Annûn, a stronghold for the Rangers of Ithilien, and brought before Faramir, Boromir's younger brother. Gollum had evaded capture and, in order to save him from death at the hands of Faramir's hunters, Frodo accepts that he and Gollum are bound to each other. Faramir investigates further and learns of the One Ring that Frodo carries. Seeking to prove his worth to his father, Denethor, he decides the Ring shall go to Gondor. In Rohan, Aragorn washes up on the riverbank and is nudged awake by the horse Brego, which formerly belonged to Théodred, and which Aragorn had set free before leaving Edoras. On the verge of collapse, he wills his horse to take him to Helm's Deep, passing Saruman's army of Uruk-hai on the way. His arrival at Helm's Deep is met with relief, but is short lived as the news of the approaching Uruk-hai horde casts doubt upon the survival of the defenders. As night falls, a battalion of Elves led by Haldir arrives from Lothlórien, bearing word of alliance and aid from Elrond. In Fangorn forest, Merry, Pippin, Treebeard and other Ents hold an Entmoot to decide on the role of the Ents in the war with Saruman.
The Battle of Helm's Deep begins with a flurry of arrows from the defending archers, cutting down dozens of Uruk-hai. Scaling ladders are thrown up against the Deeping Wall and the Uruks swarm up to engage the defenders. At first the onslaught is stayed by the valour of the Rohirrim and of Aragorn and his companions. Suddenly, two crude explosive devices that Saruman created, blow up the gutter in the Deeping Wall, blasting a breach in it. Despite Aragorn and Gimli's best efforts, the Uruks manage to penetrate the main gate and soon the stronghold is overrun. In the midst of battle, Haldir is slain and the few remaining Elves fall back. In the Hornburg, the Uruks have scaled the walls and have breached the gate, forcing the defenders to retreat into the Keep. In Fangorn, Treebeard and the other Ents have decided to not have any involvement in the war, deciding rather to "weather such things as [they] have always done". Despite this, Pippin manages to cleverly take Treebeard to the section of Fangorn that Saruman has recently decimated near Isengard. Treebeard is filled with rage at Saruman's betrayal and commands all the other Ents to seek vengeance. The Ents gather and embark upon 'the Last March of the Ents', straight into Isengard itself.
Meanwhile, as Théoden despairs in the besieged Keep, Aragorn refuses to give in and, remembering Gandalf's words before he left Edoras, takes Théoden, Legolas and the remaining Rohirrim on one last gallant ride to attack the Uruk-hai army in a desperate bid to allow the Rohirrim's women and children to escape into the mountains. The riders storm out of the Keep and cut their way through to the fortress gate. As the riders emerge into the mass of Uruks, the first rays of dawn fall down into the valley and upon the eastern hill, Gandalf appears, accompanied by Éomer and his men.
Isengard destroyed by the Ents
They rush down into the body of the stunned Uruks and rout them: the terrified Uruk-hai flee into Fangorn, where the Ents and their Huorn allies swiftly exact retribution. Meanwhile, the Ents are take control of Isengard. They destroy the remaining Uruk-hai population and release the dam placed upon the river Isen, which gushes forth into the plains around Orthanc, drowning the surviving Orc defenders, quenching the fires of its industry and flooding Isengard, and stranding Saruman in his tower.
Frodo encounters a Nazgul in Osgiliath
Away to the East, Faramir has had Frodo, Sam and Gollum taken to Osgiliath, a ruined city on the banks of the river Anduin between Mordor and Gondor; where there is a Ringwraith, again on a winged beast. With the help of Sam and Faramir, Frodo narrowly escapes the Ringwraith's efforts to capture him and the Ring (it nearly cost Sam his life because the Ring tried to make Frodo kill him). In an inspired monologue as he watches the Ringwraith fly off (and as victory scenes from the two battles are seen) Sam reflects on the state he and Frodo are in, on how their story may yet come to have a happy ending. Frodo is doubtful of this (especially because he nearly killed Sam) but Sam insists that they must still hold on to what they are fighting for: each other, and the fulfilment of their quest. Approaching them from the throes of battle, Faramir overhears them and realises these unassuming hobbits have a high doom before them which he can no longer hope to interrupt. He sets them free and helps them on their way. After the battle of Helm's Deep, Gandalf and the others ride up on horseback and gaze towards Mordor, and now know inevitable things have been set in motion. As Gandalf puts it, "The battle for Helm's Deep is over. The battle for Middle-earth is about to begin." He remarks that hope now rests with Frodo and Sam, who have resumed their journey to Mordor with Gollum. Feeling betrayed by Frodo when he delivered him into the hands of Faramir's men, Gollum's darker self re-emerges and he decides to reclaim the Ring by secretly leading Frodo and Sam to a creature he refers to only as "her", which Gollum's lighter self reluctantly agrees to and leads the hobbits on through the woods as Mordor is seen in the distance.
Jackson and his co-writers added several events to the story, notably:
Two important events from Tolkien's The Two Towers did not make it into the film, but were held over for the next one:
In addition to many characters returning from the first film, The Two Towers featured Éowyn, a noble lady of Rohan who yearns to be a warrior; Éomer, a stalwart Marshal of Rohan and brother to Éowyn; Théoden, troubled king and uncle of Éowyn and Éomer; and his treacherous counsellor, Gríma Wormtongue. The actors were supplemented by a number of special effects creatures including treelike Ents, the pterodactyl-like flying steeds of the Nazgûl and Gollum, widely acclaimed as the best fully realized CGI character in a live-action film. His movements and facial expressions were modelled on the actor who provided his voice, Andy Serkis. Only glimpsed in the first film, Gollum here becomes a pivotal character with the potential to change the fate of the story; he wrestles with inner demons and becomes a source of friction in Sam and Frodo's previously unshakeable friendship.
Characters
The theatrical edition of the movie was released on VHS and DVD on August 26, 2003. The DVD was a 2-disc set with extras on the second disc. This was intended to be a simultaneous worldwide release, but some British stores began selling the videos on Friday 22 because it was a Bank Holiday weekend, much to the ire of the film's UK distributor, which has threatened to withhold advance supplies of subsequent video releases.
An extended version of the movie including 45 minutes additional material was released on DVD on November 18, 2003 with a total of 222 minutes (3 hours, 40 minutes). One of the additional scenes features Sean Bean and John Noble, who do not appear in the theatrical version, in a flashback in which brothers Boromir and Faramir are seen together with their father Denethor. This is available on a 4-disc DVD set, with the movie on discs 1 and 2 including four audio commentaries by the crew and actors, and extensive documentaries and bonus material on discs 3 and 4, entitled "The Journey Continues" and "The Battle for Middle-earth Begins".
In December, 2003 there were also limited back-to-back theatrical releases of the extended versions of The Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers followed by premieres of The Return of the King, 10 hours and 30 minutes long in total.
Five of the characters in the film are presented somewhat differently than their counterparts in the book:
Théoden's attitude towards the coming conflict is also presented differently in Jackson's film: in the book, Théoden chooses to ride to war, and only goes to Helm's Deep in order to assist Erkenbrand's forces, which had been dealt a defeat by Saruman's armies. In the film, he opts to avoid open confrontation, and treats Helm's Deep as a shelter for the civilian population of Rohan. Only the ensuing orc siege forces him into battle. The King's sense of self-doubt is greatly magnified in the film, in order to provide him with a character arc, as was done with Faramir.
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King is the third and final film in The Lord of the Rings trilogy, directed by Peter Jackson and based on J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings.
Globally, the film is one of the highest grossing films in cinema history. The film won 11 Academy Awards at the 2004 Oscar ceremony including Best Picture, sharing the world record for most academy awards received with Ben-Hur and Titanic, and also was the first fantasy film to win Best Picture.
The first two films were The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring and The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, although the third film's story includes later events in the section of the book The Two Towers as well as most of The Return of the King. Like the two previous films, The Return of the King was a major box office success, grossing over $1.119 billion worldwide, making it the highest-grossing Middle-earth film out of all six and was the second highest-grossing film of all time at the time of its release (behind Titanic). It was also the highest grossing movie of 2003 and for New Line Cinema as a whole. The movie even became the highest grossing movie for New Line's parent company Time Warner until Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 2 in 2011. The film is the third Middle-earth film adaptation to be released and the sixth and final film chronologically.
Andy Serkis appears as Sméagol before his degradation into Gollum. This scene was actually held over from the previous film because it was felt that it would have a greater emotional impact if audiences had already seen what the Ring's influence had done to Sméagol. In his degraded state Gollum is played in the movies by a CGI character whose movements are derived from a motion-capture suit worn by Serkis, and sometimes from footage of Serkis interacting with the other actors and then digitally replaced by Gollum.
The city of Minas Tirith, glimpsed briefly in The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, is seen in all its glory. The filmmakers have taken great care to base the city closely upon Tolkien's description in the book. Close-ups of the city are represented by sets and long shots by a large and highly-detailed model, often populated by CGI characters.
The film contains key scenes that occurred in the middle portion of the novel The Lord of the Rings but were not included in the film The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers. These include the scene where the monstrous Shelob attacks Frodo and is wounded by Sam, who comes to his aid.
Other key events include the Siege of Gondor; the re-forging of the shards of Narsil into Aragorn's new sword Andúril; Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas' journey through the Paths of the Dead; the epic Battle of the Pelennor Fields, the charge of the Mûmakil; Merry and Éowyn's role in the defeat of the Lord of the Nazgûl; the destruction of the One Ring; the final fall of Sauron; Aragorn's assumption of the throne and the departure of several heroes to the Undying Lands.
The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy is highly unusual, being the only movie series whose separate installments were written simultaneously and shot all at once, so that it could be considered three parts of a single very long film. This ensured that all three movies were consistent in terms of story, acting, effects and direction.
Different routes taken in Middle-earth in The Return of the King. Routes shown in purple (Theoden & Rohirrim), blue (Aragorn & co) and yellow (Frodo & Sam)
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King picks up the story from the end of The Two Towers. The film begins with a flashback sequence where we discover how the character Gollum (Sméagol) first came across the One Ring. Before becoming Gollum he was a hobbit-like creature known as Sméagol. He is shown fishing with his cousin Déagol who, after being pulled in to the water by a large fish, discovers the One Ring in the river Anduin. Sméagol demands that Déagol give him the Ring for his birthday, but Déagol refuses. This leads to Sméagol violently strangling him to death and stealing the One Ring. After killing his cousin, Sméagol escapes to the Misty Mountains and slowly mutates into the creature known as Gollum. As this sequence ends, we see Frodo, Sam and Gollum approaching the mountains of Mordor with Mount Doom in view. Gollum is still leading them and Sam continues to have bad feelings on where Gollum will lead them to. Frodo, however, has full trust in the creature.
Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, King Théoden, Gamling and Éomer arrive at a ruined Isengard, which has been flooded out by the nearby Isen river. There, they meet with the Hobbits Merry and Pippin, who are eating and sitting "on a field of victory". The Ent Treebeard tells the group that Isengard has been taken over by the Ents, and that Saruman is imprisoned inside Orthanc.
At the foot of Orthanc they confront the traitorous wizard who stands atop of his tower. Saruman says to King Théoden that they could be allies once more, but Théoden explains that they shall both have peace when Rohan avenges all the people killed at the Westfold and Helm's Deep by executing Saruman on a gibbet. Saruman mentions to Gandalf that Frodo is heading towards immediate doom and that Aragorn will never be crowned King of Gondor. He reveals to the others the palantír which he kept in secret, and knows all the ways of the enemy. Then, they are informed by Saruman that Sauron is readying his forces for a final strike. Gandalf makes an offer with Saruman to come down from his tower and be spared, but Saruman attacks him with a ball of fire instead. Luckily, the Wizard survives and he shatters Saruman's staff, thus casting him out of the order of wizards. Before Saruman can give them more information, Gríma Wormtongue appears. Théoden says that Gríma is freed of Saruman, and that he can surrender and be a Man of Rohan as he once was. Gríma happily bows to Théoden; however, Saruman insults the Rohirrim and claims that Gríma will never be free and slaps him to the floor. In his anger, Wormtongue attacks Saruman, fatally stabbing him in the back. Legolas quickly fires an arrow into Gríma, killing him, but he is too late to save Saruman, who plummets from Orthanc's top and is impaled on a watermill.
Treebeard informs the group that the Ents will return to fill up Isengard as they once did. As the watermill spins and Saruman is submerged below the water, he drops the palantír from his sleeve. Pippin sights the palantír in the water and jumps down from Aragorn's horse to get it. Upon finding the palantír beneath the water, Pippin is told to give it to Gandalf, and he does so, but Gandalf is unsure in the hobbit, and knows that he may be up to something.
The group then ride for Edoras, where they will celebrate their victory at Helm's Deep. That night, there is a post-battle party in the Golden Hall, where King Théoden is given the Cup of Kings by his niece, Éowyn, and addresses the people of Rohan, including Aragorn, speaking of the men who died defending the gates of Helm’s Deep and saving their country. Then, there is a huge feast where Éomer volunteers Gimli and Legolas into a drinking competition - eventually, Legolas wins after Gimli passes out. Éowyn gives Aragorn the Cup of Kings and Théoden joins her. He says that he is happy for her and that Aragorn is an honorable man. Théoden then says that it was not him who led their people to victory, but soon gets off the subject with Éowyn. Merry and Pippin are drunk and dancing, singing songs of the Green Dragon Inn in front of a large crowd of Rohirrim men, who are enjoying the show. Pippin pauses for a moment to find Gandalf watching him but is quickly pulled back into the dance by Merry, and the pair continue to enjoy themselves. Aragorn then discusses with Gandalf the progress of Frodo and Sam on the quest to destroy the One Ring. Gandalf says he has received no news of Frodo and Aragorn says that every day Frodo moves closer to Mordor. Gandalf responds that his heart confirms Frodo is alive.
Elsewhere, near the Mountains of Shadow, Frodo and Sam are asleep whilst Gollum secretly sneaks away and confronts himself at a pool. Gollum/Sméagol argue with themselves over whether they will kill the Hobbits and take the Ring, but Gollum says that they shall lead Frodo and Sam up a stairway, where “she” will kill them. Then, from the Hobbits' remains, Gollum/Sméagol shall take the Ring. However, Sam suddenly attacks Gollum, having heard his plans, but is dragged away from him by Frodo, who does not believe that Gollum is a villain. Frodo leads Gollum away, who looks back at Sam, giving an evil grin. At Edoras, everyone is sleeping. Aragorn goes into the main hall where Éowyn lies sleeping. As Aragorn approaches to pull the quilt upon to her, Éowyn awakens briefly to tell Aragorn of a “Great Wave” flooding a great city, destruction and darkness. Aragorn listens and then watches as she falls back asleep.
Walking outside, Aragorn goes to Legolas, who is viewing the land, knowing that the Eye of Sauron is moving to his next target. Inside the hall, Pippin, fascinated by the seeing stone, takes it from Gandalf while he sleeps, and, ignoring Merry’s urging to leave it alone, moves to touch the palantír. Whilst gazing into the crystal ball, Pippin is suddenly spied by the Eye of Sauron who attempts to interrogate the Hobbit via psychic link. Barely able to resist Sauron's power, Pippin is nearly broken into submission, but Gandalf and Aragorn wrestle it from his tortured fingers. Pippin is left deeply shaken, but lives. Gandalf quickly rushes to Pippin in a panic and asks whether he revealed anything about Frodo and the Ring. Pippin confirms that he revealed nothing of Frodo and the Ring, but that he saw a dead, white tree in a courtyard of stone, with the city around it in flames.
The next morning, Gandalf, Aragorn, Théoden, Legolas, Gimli and the Hobbits Merry and Pippin meet in the great hall to decide on what is to be done with the information Pippin has provided. Gandalf is now certain that Sauron will come after Pippin, thinking he has the Ring. Pippin's vision, however, has revealed that Sauron's plan is to attack Minas Tirith, the capital city of Gondor. Having been defeated at Helm's Deep, Sauron has realized that Men might pose a threat to him. Sauron is not willing to let the Free Peoples of Middle-earth unite against him. Gandalf says to Théoden that if the beacons of Gondor are lit, then Rohan must be ready for war, but Théoden says that because Gondor never went to aid them during the Battle of the Hornburg, Rohan owes Gondor nothing. When Aragorn says that he shall go, Gandalf instead enigmatically urges Aragorn to travel south and use the "Black Ships" to come to the aid of Minas Tirith. He then mentions that things have been set in motion that cannot be undone — he rides for Minas Tirith, and that he won’t be going alone... Pippin will be travelling with him. Leaving the Golden Hall, Gandalf says that of all inquisitive Hobbits, Pippin is the worst. Merry is furious with Pippin, saying that it is always him who causes trouble and this time, the enemy believes Pippin has the Ring, and because they will be looking for him, they must get Pippin out of Rohan. When Pippin asks if Merry is coming with him, Merry says nothing. In the stables, Pippin asks Gandalf on how far Minas Tirith, and Gandalf says that it would be three days 'as the Nazgûl flies'. Merry gives Pippin the remaining Longbottom leaves. Gandalf then makes a speedy depart for Gondor with Pippin on Shadowfax, leaving a heartbroken Merry behind.
Merry then goes on to view Gandalf and Pippin going away from Edoras, and Merry says to Aragorn that he has always been there for Pippin, and now he’s gone, just like Frodo and Sam. Aragorn then says to Merry that there is one thing he learnt from Hobbits – they are very stout folk.
Arwen
Meanwhile, Arwen is travelling with a company of Elves (including Figwit) toward the Grey Havens. On the journey, she has a vision of Eldarion, her future son by Aragorn, which convinces her to turn back to Rivendell. There, she urges her father Elrond to reforge Narsil, the sword of Elendil, so that it may be given to Aragorn. Elrond is resistant, until he realizes that Arwen is becoming mortal. He is told by Arwen that this is her choice, and that there is no ship that can take her away now.
Later, Elrond sadly watches as Narsil is reforged by Elf smiths.
Gandalf rides to Minas Tirith
Gandalf and Pippin, meanwhile, ride into the Kingdom of Gondor and up a hill bank to view the huge and mighty White City of Minas Tirith – City of Kings. They ride up on Shadowfax up every level of the city, from the First up to the Seventh, until they reach the citadel of the city thousands of feet above the plain, right at the tip of a huge rock prow. Before entering the Throne Hall, Pippin notices the White Tree (From his vision) guarded by the Fountain Guard and Gandalf explains that the Gondorians believe that one day the White Tree will flower again, once a King returns to the throne. Also, Gandalf warns Pippin not to say anything to the current Steward of Gondor, Denethor, about the death of his son, Boromir, Aragorn, or to say anything at all.
The current Steward of Gondor, Denethor
Gandalf and Pippin go to confront Lord Denethor, seated on the Steward’s chair, at the end of the great hall, where they discover that Denethor has nearly been driven mad by grief and is unwilling to ask for help in the defence of Gondor from Théoden and the Riders of Rohan, believing that Gandalf merely intends to use his forces to defeat the armies of Mordor, then replace him with Aragorn. Pippin, nonetheless, pledges his service to Denethor in gratitude for Boromir's heroic efforts to save Merry and him. Denethor tells Gandalf that he knows of Aragorn and will not bow to him, as the rule of Gondor is his. Gandalf is furious that Denethor won’t call or send for Rohan’s aid but will just grieve whilst Mordor prepares its armies to crush Minas Tirith.
He leaves with Pippin following him, furious with the Steward’s actions and walks across the citadel, telling Pippin about the line of Kings failing in Gondor, and about the White Tree withering because of this. The rule of Gondor was given over to lesser men. He also says that Sauron’s forces will use a large block of fumes to cover Gondor’s sky and allow the Orcs to pass onto the fields and conquer the city. Meanwhile, Frodo, Sam and Gollum continue their journey through woods near Gondor. Sam notices that the sky is growing darker every day, foreshadowing the foreboding events about to occur.
Then, Frodo notices a statue of a Gondorian King, but his head has been toppled, and another head, carved by Orcs, has been put in its place, mocking it. Then, a bright light from the Sun reveals the King’s original head, with a crown of flowers around its top. Sam then says to Frodo "Look, the King’s got a crown again!" But then the light goes behind the trees, and the original head of the statue goes dark once more. Frodo and Sam, with Gollum leading them, continue their journey.
That night, at Minas Tirith, Pippin prepares his Gondorian armor whilst Gandalf overlooks Mordor in the distance from a balcony. Gandalf explains the intensity of the time that has come; Sauron has gathered all that he can for his final war, a juggernaut army of not just Orcs, but also Haradrim soldiers, great beasts and monsters from the south – and even mercenaries (men) from the sea. One way or another the end of Gondor as they know it has come. If the Orcs take the city of Osgiliath, it will eliminate the defenses between Minas Tirith and the armies of Mordor. Pippin optimistically asserts the presence of the White Wizard on their side. But, Gandalf is less hopeful.
Gandalf also explains that Sauron has sent his most deadly and greatest servant to lead the forces of Mordor into war, who is assumed to be immortal against any living man – the Witch-king of Angmar – who was also the Nazgûl who struck Frodo down on Weathertop. He is the leader of the Ringwraiths and the most powerful of the nine, and Minas Morgul is his lair.
Meanwhile, as Gandalf says this, Frodo, Sam and Gollum move toward the evil city of Minas Morgul on their journey. Gollum then leads them to some stairs spanning up a huge cliff face in the Mountains of Shadow. Suddenly, the power of Minas Morgul draws the Ring close to it and Frodo goes with it. Gollum and Sam quickly move to pull him away, but as they do, a pillar of green fire rises from Minas Morgul and shoots up into the night sky.
At Minas Tirith, Gandalf, Pippin and the Gondorians witness the signal in the distance. At Minas Morgul, Frodo collapses and the city goes silent. Suddenly, the Witch-king swoops out of Minas Morgul on his Fellbeast, and lets out a terrible screech. This stuns Frodo, causing him to feel the wraith's blade. Then, the Witch-king’s fell beast makes the call, and the huge army of Sauron marches out of Minas Morgul toward Gondor, led by the Witch-king, who swoops out in front of them.
Frodo, Sam and Gollum begin to climb toward the high pass of Cirith Ungol. As they do this, Sam suddenly grabs Gollum, warning him not to do anything to Frodo, and if he does, Gollum will be gone. Sam then continues to climb with Frodo, and Gollum looks up at him with an evil grin. At Minas Tirith, Gandalf realizes that the Mordor army is on the move. He quickly has Pippin climb up to the signal beacon located high above Minas Tirith and light it.
At the ruined city of Osgiliath, the Rangers here, led by the young captain of Gondor, Faramir, prepare their weaponry. Faramir is told that the Orcs are lying low across the river, scouts were sent to Cair Andros to give early warning in case the Orcs were to attack from the north. Secretly, on the river, the Orcs are making their move on large rafts. Among them, one hideously deformed Orc, Gothmog, is in immediate command. Gothmog orders his Orc troops to be quiet whilst they approach Osgiliath, in a surprise attack on the garrison.
As the Orcs draw closer towards the city, one soldier notices them approaching, and Gothmog quickly orders his demise. Then, an Orc archer kills the soldier and Faramir is called to the scene, where he instantly realizes that they are about to be attacked and Orcs are not attacking from the north. Then, Faramir quickly leads a heroic defence of the city, having all his men guard each side of the river bank, but the Orcs draw closer and Gothmog orders his troops to draw their swords and prepare to invade the city.
Faramir waits for the attack, his sword drawn, as the Orc rafts hit the shore and the Orcs inside them run into Osgiliath. Faramir then nods to his men that the time is right, and he charges into the invading Orcs, his Rangers and men of the garrison following. The Orcs start attacking the garrison, and, as more rafts hit the bank, a huge battle ensues. Soon, the Orcs lower a ramp on the bridge and swarm into the city. The garrison experience a very early success, but are soon overwhelmed and overrun by the Orcs.
Meanwhile, Pippin climbs up to the Minas Tirith signal beacon high above the city and quietly sets it alight and sneaks away, as the Gondorian soldiers there stand up in confusion as the beacon lights in a large ball of flames. On one of the city walls, Gandalf goes to view the other beacons lighting up along the White Mountains. However, Denethor looks unhappily at the events through the throne room window. Gandalf knows that hope has come to Gondor.
The signal passes along Gondor's chain of beacons in the White Mountains, swiftly reaching Edoras. There, Aragorn quickly runs to tell Théoden that "Gondor calls for aid!" After a brief moment of thought, Théoden declares that Rohan will answer and orders the Rohirrim to muster at Dunharrow – they will ride for Gondor and to war. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli prepare themselves and Aragorn notices that Éowyn will be riding with them. She says that the men have found Aragorn as their captain; they will follow him to battle and even to death. He has given them hope.
Gimli says to Legolas that horsemen are not as good in battle than an army of Dwarves - fully armed and filthy. Legolas, however, says that his kinsmen have no need to ride to war, for he fears war is already marching upon their own lands. Merry, meanwhile, pledges himself to Théoden, and the King of Rohan proudly accepts, saying that Merry shall be – Meriadoc, esquire of Rohan. Now in the King’s service, Merry happily puts on Rohan armour and prepares to ride with the Rohirrim to Dunharrow.
As the Rohirrim gather, Théoden takes one last look up at the banner of Rohan, knowing that this will be the last battle he shall ride to. Gathering up, Éomer bids the men of Rohan to fulfil the oaths they had taken and ride for Lord and land. It is then that, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Théoden, Éowyn, Éomer and even Merry leave Edoras for Dunharrow.
At Osgiliath, the Orcs overrun the city and slaughter everything in their path; defeating the garrison. As his men die around him, Faramir barely escapes an attack by Orc soldiers after a group of fellow Rangers fire a small volley of arrows at the pocket of Orcs pursuing him, he soon realizes that all hope of holding the city is lost; the Orcs have won.
He calls for a retreat - they ride for Minas Tirith. The men quickly flee onto their horses and race out of the city. During the attack, Faramir’s lieutenant, Madril, is attacked by an Orc and left wounded. He is quickly finished off by Gothmog, who cruelly kills him with a spear. Gothmog then states to his troops that the Age of Men is over and that the time of the Orc has come.
Faramir retreats from Osgiliath
As Faramir and his men retreat to Minas Tirith, they are attacked by Nazgûl on winged fellbeasts and many die across the field. As the retreating Rangers are attacked, Gandalf and Pippin ride out of Minas Tirith towards them on Shadowfax. The men of Minas Tirith watch as the Rangers are all saved by Gandalf, who drives the Nazgûl back with a beam of white light from his staff. Inside the city, Faramir tells Gandalf of the Orcs overtaking the city and now crossing the river.
Faramir then comes into sight of Pippin, and his reaction to seeing Pippin reveals that he has recently seen two other Hobbits: Frodo and Sam. Gandalf is alarmed to hear that they are heading toward Cirith Ungol, but is worried and asks Faramir to tell him all he knows. However, Denethor hears this too, and confronts his younger son in the throne room. He is ashamed of Faramir's loss of Osgiliath and the fact that he gave the One Ring to a Hobbit and let him carry it to Mordor. Denethor says that the Ring should have been brought back to the Citadel, to be kept safe, hidden and secret in the dark vaults, not to be used until the time was right.
He then says that Boromir would have brought him the Ring but Faramir says that Boromir would not have done this; he would have taken the Ring and fallen. As Denethor rises from his throne in anger, Faramir says that Boromir would have kept the Ring for his own, and when he returned, Denethor would never again know him as a son. Denethor then leaps up in anger, saying that Boromir was loyal to him, and not a "Wizard's Pupil" like Faramir. Denethor then collapses in grief and it is revealed that he misses Boromir so much, that he no longer sees Faramir as a trustworthy son.
In his grief, he asks Faramir to leave his sight, which he sadly does. At the steps leading up to the Pass of Cirith Ungol, Frodo, Sam and Gollum continue to climb. On climbing, Gollum is the first to climb upon a ledge and urges Frodo to continue climbing, but as he does so, he notices the Ring dangling from the chain on his neck. Gollum reaches for it and Sam draws his sword, but Gollum then seemingly goes to grab Frodo’s hand and pull him up. Then, as Sam climbs up after them, Gollum starts to pour false accusations into Frodo’s ear about Sam, saying that soon, Sam will ask him for the Ring and take it for his own.
At Osgiliath, as the forces of Mordor prepare their army, the Witch-king orders Gothmog to send forth all legions and not halt the attack until Minas Tirith is taken, commanding the Orcs to slay everyone in the city. Gothmog asks of Gandalf's fate, and the Witch-king says that he shall break him. At Minas Tirith, the soldiers are worried and they ask Gandalf if Rohan will come to aid them. Gandalf says that courage is their best defense. In the Throne Hall, Pippin now wears Faramir’s armour he wore as a child, and is told by Faramir himself that he never used to do his studying when he was younger; instead he used to waste time slaying dragons.
He also says that Denethor made the armour for him, who has always seen Boromir as the stronger child. However, Pippin reminds him that Faramir has strength, but of a different kind, and one day, Denethor shall see that in him too and actually come to value Faramir. Afterwards, Pippin enters Lord Denethor's service and puts his service and loyalty to him. However, Pippin is soon after shocked when he hears that Denethor wishes for Faramir to retake Osgiliath. On hearing this, Faramir realizes that his own father wants him to die for Boromir, who died in his place. Obeying this order, Faramir says that he shall do this command in Boromir's stead, but when he returns, he wants Denethor to think better of him. Denethor, however depends that on the matter of his return. Faramir sadly leaves to go and try to retake Osgiliath, knowing that this act will claim his own life.
Meanwhile, at the pass of Cirith Ungol, the Hobbits sleep on a ledge suspended hundreds of feet above Minas Morgul. In secret, Gollum gets up to his tricks and drops the Hobbit's Lembas bread down the cliff. Awakening, Sam discovers what has happened and instantly blames Gollum. Once Frodo awakens, Gollum goes to try and stir the events. He continues to play with Frodo's mind until it is too late, and when Sam suddenly asks Frodo if he can carry the Ring, only wanting to help, Frodo’s mind goes against him.
He suddenly pushes Sam away in anger and Gollum grins, his plan is working. After trying to convince Frodo that it is Gollum's fault, Sam is horrified when Frodo falls for the ploy and tells Sam to leave. Sam does so, saddened and reluctant. Frodo continues to climb with Gollum behind him. Meanwhile, Faramir's cavalry rides proudly out of Minas Tirith as Gandalf tries to convince Faramir that his father is quite mad, but still loves him. Faramir sadly explains that he would do anything to defend Minas Tirith but knows that he will die at his father's will.
Faramir's detachment charges out onto the open plains, heading towards Osgiliath as the thousand of Orcs which have overtaken the city watch, preparing their black bows. In Minas Tirith, Denethor has Pippin sing as his son and all his men ride to a doomed fate, not realizing that it is actually happening.
Pippin sings:
"Home is behind, the world ahead and there are many paths to tread, through shadow to the edge of night, until the stars are all alight..."
Approaching Osgiliath, Faramir holds his sword out to the enemy, but the Orcs there draw their bows and prepare to fire. In Minas Tirith, as Denethor eats, Pippin continues to sing:
"... Mist and shadow cloud and shade, all shall fade, all shall fade."
At Osgilliath, the Orcs are commanded by Gothmog to fire a huge volley of arrows upon the advancing horsemen. Letting their bows lose, the Orcs rein arrows upon Faramir's cavalry, massacring them. A despondent Gandalf sits in silent lament, while Pippin weeps at Denethor's indifference to the fact he has sent his son to his death while pigging out.
Andúril being given to Aragorn
At Dunharrow, the Rohirrim gather outside a huge cliff face, preparing their men and weaponry for war. King Théoden asks his men on the reinforcements, but is told that several alliances have not yet come. Soon after, now on top of a large campsite on the side of a huge cliff, King Théoden and Aragorn go to view the army, and Théoden says that there are six thousand men ready, but Aragorn says that is not enough to break the lines of Mordor. Théoden says that more men will come, but Aragorn explains to him that every hour lost hastens Gondor's defeat - they have until dawn before they must ride.
Also, the men here, along with the horses, are terrified of a road that leads to the mountains behind Dunharrow. Legolas and Gimli are looking around, viewing the road, when Éomer explains that the horses grow nervous at the shadow of the mountain. He tells them that anyone who ever journeyed that road never returned and that the mountain is evil. Aragorn then goes to view the road and is especially frightened when he sees what appears to be a spectral figure staring back at him. Gimli distracts him and when Aragorn looks back, the figure is gone.
That night, Éowyn prepares Merry for battle, and he notes that his sword isn't even sharp. Éowyn says to the Hobbit that he won't kill many Orcs with a blunt blade and then goes to take him to the smithy, but, as Merry goes, Éowyn is told by Éomer that Merry is not ready for war. Éowyn asks why Merry cannot fight for those he loves but Éomer tells her that both she and Merry know little about war and that war is the province of Men, and that Merry will fall to the fear of battle and that he will flee when he comes face-to-face with the enemy.
Meanwhile, in his tent, Aragorn has a nightmare about Arwen dying at Sauron's power and the Evenstar shattering. Upon awakening in sudden anger, Aragorn is called to Théoden’s tent, where he meets Elrond, who says of Arwen dying - as Sauron's power grows, her lifespan degenerates. Elrond explains to Aragorn about Minas Tirith being lost, because to the river, a fleet of Corsair ships sail from the south. They are outnumbered, as Elrond explains, and he tells Aragorn that they need more men if they are to win this fight.
Aragorn says that there are none, but Elrond then explains that there are those men that dwell in the mountain. However, Aragorn only states that those in the mountain are murderers and traitors. They don't believe in anything, and answer to no one. However, Elrond then says that they will answer to the King of Gondor; Elrond then presents Aragorn with Andúril, the reforged shards of Narsil.
With this blade, Aragorn can summon up an army that even Sauron cannot withstand. Elrond states to Aragorn that it is time to put aside the Ranger, and that it is time to become who he was born to be. Aragorn finally accepts his destiny to be King. Upon preparing to leave Dunharrow, Aragorn is confronted by Éowyn, who begs Aragorn not to go and that the men need him. She confirms her love to Aragorn, but, Aragorn, instead, tells Éowyn that he does not love her but still wishes her happiness.
Accompanied by Legolas and Gimli, he takes the Paths of the Dead in the mountains behind Dunharrow. The soldiers of Rohan watch as Aragorn departs and one of the soldiers, Gamling, says that he leaves because there is no hope. However, Théoden tells his men that Aragorn leaves because he must, and even though their numbers are too few against the Armies of Mordor, they shall still meet them in battle. Later that evening, Éowyn sadly views the mountains ahead, and she is accompanied by Théoden, who says that he has left the request for Éowyn to lead the people of Rohan if anything happens to him. Éowyn asks if he wants to give her another order, but Théoden says that he doesn’t, but he says that he would have his niece smiling in the future times.
Meanwhile, the three companions, Legolas, Aragorn, and Gimli move slowly down the silent road that leads to the Paths of the Dead. Legolas tells them of the curse Isildur laid upon them for not fighting in the War of the Last Alliance - never to rest until they have fulfilled their pledge to allegiance to Gondor. After a brief ride through the passes, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli approach the Dark Door where a burst of evil scares the companion’s horses away.
Aragorn, however, says that he does not fear death and he enters the door, Legolas behind him and Gimli soon to follow. At Dunharrow, the Rohirrim climb up onto their horses and prepare to ride for Minas Tirith. King Théoden and Éomer prepare the army and Théoden says that it is a long road ahead and both man and beast must reach the end with the strength to fight.
Meanwhile, Merry is preparing a horse to ride to Gondor but is told by Théoden that his journey here has come to an end, and that it is a three day ride to Minas Tirith, and none of his riders can have the Hobbit as a burden. Despite Merry’s urging to ride to war, Théoden dismisses him. Then, as all hope of riding with the Rohirrim seems lost, Merry is suddenly lifted up by an unknown rider and scooped away by him. But this is no man rider – but Eowyn – who says that Merry will ride with her. Merry gladly accepts this.
Éomer and Théoden muster the men and the Rohan army of six thousand horsemen all gallop out of Dunharrow and away to war with Mordor. Meanwhile, the even-more massive army of Mordor marches upon Minas Tirith, Trolls and Orcs alike. Inside the Dead Mountain, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli move through the tunnels and caverns of the dead, where Legolas tells them of him seeing many images of dead men and of horses.
Avoiding the ghostly mists that lurk the paths, Aragorn and his companions find themselves walking upon the skulls and bones of many dead souls.
The Army of the Dead confront Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli.
Finally, the companions enter the lair of the King of the Dead and find the legendary ghost army that dwells in the immense caves. Aragorn, unafraid, confronts them directly, saying that he can fulfil their oath, but the King of the Dead says none but the King of Gondor may command him. Aragorn the shows him Andúril, and as the King of the Dead attacks, Aragorn parries his strike. The King of the Dead snarls "That line was broken!"; in response, Aragorn seizes him, holds Anduril to the King's throat and replied that the blade (and the royal bloodline it represents) has been remade, and then pushes him back. Now with the ghost army's attention, Aragorn orders them as their master, to join him on the battlefield at Minas Tirith and there, once they have destroyed the enemy, he will hold their oath fulfilled.
He asks them for their say, but Gimli warns him that he is wasting his time, they had no honor in life and none now in death. Aragorn says that he is Isildur's heir and that he will fulfil their oath. However, the ghosts refuse and slowly disappear. Aragorn calls out to them one last time but they go, and Gimli furiously says that they are all traitors. Then, the walls begin to shake, and moments later, the entire cave collapses, and thousands of skulls avalanche upon them.
Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli are driven from the caves by the cascade of skulls and barely escape. As they exit the caves, they arrive at the Anduin River and see an armada of Black Ships. As they watch the ships leave a burning city, Aragorn falls to his knees, believing all hope for Gondor to be lost and that they have failed. Then, the King of the Dead suddenly appears from inside the mountain and agrees to join Aragorn in battle.
The Siege of Minas Tirith
At Gondor, the siege of Minas Tirith begins when the massive Orc army of two hundred thousand troops launches its assault using troll-driven siege towers and huge catapults. Faramir's lifeless form is dragged back-first into Minas Tirith by his horse. The guards of the city quickly take hold of Faramir's body and take it up to the Citadel. Down on the fields, the Orcs prepare their catapults, while Gothmog observes the army by riding through their lines on a Warg. Inside Minas Tirith, upon bringing Faramir to his father, Denethor is heart-broken to find his only surviving son seemingly killed, while a soldier tells him that they were outnumbered: none survived.
Outside the city, Gothmog, who is in full-command of the Mordor army, feels the fear raging in the city, and sarcastically "eases their pain" by having his underlings "release the prisoners" which they do, firing severed heads of dead soldiers from catapults at the walls, causing panic, disgust and terror upon the city.
Up in the Citadel, Denethor proclaims that his lineage had ended after having the lives of his two sons spent. Pippin quickly goes to check Faramir's wound - he is still alive, he tries to tell Denethor. Ignoring Pippin’s pleas, Denethor says that the Stewardship of the city has ended. Denethor then goes to view the huge army of Mordor outside the city, as they commence the assault upon his walls. Down on the field, Gothmog evilly laughs as troops unleash numerous boulders upon Minas Tirith, shattering many of its building whilst the Gondorian soldiers just stand and watch.
Now in a panic, Denethor talks to himself of all hope being lost, feeling that Rohan has deserted him and betrayed by King Théoden. As more boulders hit his walls, Denethor instructs the soldiers to flee from the mounting onslaught in an act of cowardice. Denethor is then suddenly assaulted by Gandalf, who, disgusted with Denethor, hits him several times with his staff, knocking him out. Gandalf then takes command, and tells the city to prepare for battle.
The Wizard then quickly gets up onto his horse and rides out into the city, calling for the retreating soldiers to return to their posts. Then, the army of Gondor quickly stands upon the city walls as Gandalf goes to view the Orc army. He calls for the Gondorians to send these foul creatures to the abyss.
At Gandalf’s orders, the Gondorians respond by launching their own catapult attack with trebuchets, using debris and rubble from damaged walls and demolished city structures as ammunition, killing many Orcs and destroying mobile siege towers and catapults. The rocks fall down between the Orcs, who look at them in fear, but Gothmog orders them to stay where they are. A catapult duel ensues between the Gondorian armies and the Orcs, crushing troops on both sides.
Then, one catapult, fired by the Gondorians, sends a boulder hurling towards Gothmog, but he quickly steps away from it. He spits at the boulder in disgust. Suddenly, high above the siege, the Witch-king and the Nazgûl attack the city upon their fellbeasts, killing many men and inflicting heavy damage by destroying the Gondrian catapults, rendering them defenseless. Their screeches send the Gondorians into maddened panic and Pippin is one of many caught in the fear. As the Nazgûl swoop overhead, Gandalf orders the men not to give into fear, and has then stand to their posts nevertheless the danger.
The Nazgûl's fell beasts smash many buildings, and as Pippin runs through the city, he is knocked down by many terrified people trying to run away from the chaos. During these events, the trolls start bringing forth the huge siege towers, filled with many war-hungry Orcs. Gandalf orders the men on the walls to aim for the trolls and not the towers themselves, and the soldiers do, shooting their arrows down upon the trolls. Soon, one siege tower hits the wall and Orcs pile out, attacking the Gondorians, and after that, many more towers land, unleashing more Orcs.
Meanwhile more Orcs, determined to break through the Great Gate of Minas Tirith, charge a battering ram at the gates. As this happens, Pippin runs onto the walls, where Gandalf is busy fighting off the invading Orcs. Gandalf shouts for Pippin to return to the citadel, but Pippin says that he was called out to fight. However, as more Orcs attack, two intent on killing Pippin, Gandalf intervenes to save the Hobbit's life, abruptly telling him that the battlefield is no place for a Hobbit. As more siege towers hit the walls and Orcs are let loose, one of them charges towards Gandalf, but Pippin quickly stabs the creature with his sword, killing it instantly.
Gandalf turns to Pippin, saying that the Hobbit is Guard of the Citadel indeed, but then quickly hurries him back up the stairs to the top of the city where he can be safe. At the gates, the Orcs continue to slam their battering ram at the gates, but the Gondorian archers from up above fire arrows down upon the Orcs, killing many and slowing down the ram.
The gate is completely impregnable. Gothmog angrily tells his troops to return to the battering ram and smash the gate down, but he is told by one of his Orc captains that the gate is too strong and nothing can breach it. Seeing his troops die one by one, Gothmog orders the Orcs to use advance on the gates with Grond, a giant, wolf-shaped battering ram. Soon after, Grond, driven by great beasts, advances upon the gates.
Gandalf looks out over the walls to see Grond approaching, and as it draws closer, the Orcs all chant its name as it prepares to breach the gates. It is chaos, and elsewhere, Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas confront the Black Ships and the Corsairs of Umbar. Aragorn warns the Corsairs not to enter Gondor, but the Corsair captain says that he cannot deny that passage.
Aragorn has Legolas fire a warning shot past one of the Corsair’s ears, but as he does so, Gimli deliberately knocks his bow, causing the arrow to hit another Corsair in the chest, killing him. Gimli says that the Corsairs should surrender immediately, but when the pirates refuse, Aragorn has the Army of the Dead obliterate them.
Frodo in Shelob's lair
Meanwhile, Gollum leads Frodo towards Shelob's Lair in the catacombs near Cirith Ungol. Gollum says that Frodo must enter the tunnel and that there is no other way, either he goes in or goes back. Frodo says that he can't go back. Then, Frodo cautiously enters the caves, which are filled with sticky webs and the remains of dead Orcs and other creatures. In the darkness, Frodo is abandoned by Gollum and left stranded in the dark, gloomy caves. Meanwhile, Sam is climbing back down the pass, saddened, and suddenly slips, falling to a ledge near the bottom of the steps.
There, he finds the Elven bread which Gollum cast down into the ravine. Now angered by the way Gollum fooled Frodo into thinking that he wants to steal the Ring, Sam realizes that he must go and rescue Frodo. In the caves, Frodo is in a panic. After running nervously through the caves, Frodo suddenly encounters the great spider - Shelob. Frodo luckily manages to keep Shelob at bay with the Phial of Galadriel. He flees from her down the tunnels.
Suddenly, Frodo is caught in one of her webs and realizes that since Gollum won't save him, it is a deliberate trap. In his anger, Frodo cuts himself lose of the web as Shelob draws closer to him and he flees the cave. Frodo is then attacked by Gollum, but he angrily pushes Gollum away and prepares to strangle him, when Gollum says that the Ring is the reason why he tried to kill him. Frodo says that he must destroy it for both their sakes. Walking away from Gollum, Frodo doesn't realize Gollum is about to attack him, and as he does, Frodo pushes Gollum down a cliff. Now alone, Frodo continues to move through the passes. At one point Frodo faints and gives up saying sorry to Sam, but Galadriel appears and encourages him to go on and continue the quest, Frodo gets up and resumes the road.
Near Gondor, the Rohirrim have made camp where Éomer arrives to tell Théoden of the Mordor army attacking the walls of Minas Tirith, the first level already in flames. Among the soldiers, Merry says that he could be a knight of Rohan, capable of great deeds, but he is not - he's just a Hobbit. He tells Éowyn that he just wants to save his friends, Frodo, Sam and Pippin.
Now ready, the Rohirrim sound the war horns and prepare to ride for Minas Tirith. Éowyn and Merry place their Rohan helmets on. It is night, and at Minas Tirith, the Orcs are assaulting the walls with molten boulders, their entire army marching up towards the gates.
Grond hammers at the gates of Minas Tirith
Inside the city, Gandalf charges the men of Gondor down to the first level of the city as Grond thunders against the main gates. As this happens, high above the events, Denethor, in his most extreme moment of madness, retreats to the Tomb of the Stewards, intending to burn himself to death along with the still-living body of Faramir. They move out of the White Tower of Ecthelion and past the White Tree of Gondor, where one flower seemingly blooms. Pippin, suspecting something disastrous going to happen, secretly follows the funeral parlor to the Tomb in the hallows of the city where Denethor requests for his men to build a pyre.
Down at the gates, Grond prepares to break them open as fireballs fall upon the city's buildings. Gandalf, in front of the frightened men of Gondor, says that no matter what comes through those gates, they must stand their ground.
It is then, that Grond breaks the gates apart and trolls suddenly enter the city first, and then followed by hundreds of Orcs and the Easterlings of Rhun, who charge into the city, viciously attacking Gandalf and the soldiers. The forces of Mordor pour into the city, burning the first level, as Gandalf continues to lead the Gondor forces against them.
Meanwhile, as Frodo makes his way towards the Tower of Cirith Ungol, Shelob sneakily stings Frodo and wraps him in webbing.
Sam fights off Shelob
At that moment, Sam arrives, holding the Light of Eärendil at Shelob, telling her to back away from Frodo. He has retrieved Frodo's sword, Sting, and fights Shelob with great courage as the huge spider attacks him with her claws and fangs. Eventually, after a brief fight, Sam severely wounds Shelob, leaving her partially blind and bleeding. She crawls away from Sam and back into her cave.
Sam quickly rushes to Frodo's side, only to find him still and lifeless, believing his friend to be dead. Sam cries, thinking that the Quest is now over, and he holds Frodo’s seemingly lifeless body in his arms. While Sam mourns over Frodo's apparent death, Sting glows blue, which heralds a small company of Orcs approaching.
Hiding nearby, Sam overhears one of them, Gorbag, who says that Frodo is still alive. Sam overhears the Orcs saying that Shelob only stings her victims to knock them out, as she prefers live prey, and Sam realizes that he has made a big mistake. The Orcs take Frodo to the Tower of Cirith Ungol, imprisoning him in the highest room. Sam must rescue him. At Minas Tirith, in the hallows of the city, Pippin quietly approaches the Tomb of the Stewards where he realizes what is about to happen. He tries to intervene, but Denethor throws him out and releases him from his service, and bars the tomb's doors
He quickly runs through the burning city to tell Gandalf, but there is too much carnage as injured Gondorians pour past him. Fiery boulders are hitting the city, and the people run for their lives, screaming, as thousands of Orcs run through it. Gandalf orders the soldiers to pull back to the second level and get as many women and children to safety as possible, while out on the field, the Orc forces receive orders from Gothmog to enter the city and kill all in their path. Inside the first level, Gandalf fights long and hard to keep the Orcs, wargs and trolls back but the people of the city are being slaughtered as the soldiers fight off many more invading enemies. Gandalf exhorts them to fight to the last man.
Amidst the fighting, Pippin finds Gandalf and tells him of Denethor's madness. Gandalf quickly pulls Pippin up onto his horse and quickly races towards the tomb to stop the obscene funeral pyre.
"This is my hour!"
Along the way, Gandalf confronts the Witch-king. Gandalf warns the Witch-king to return to the abyss that awaits him and his master, but the evil wraith snarls at the wizard and uses his dark powers to shatter Gandalf's staff, blowing the wizard from Shadowfax.
Pippin lunges at the Witch-king, but is frozen in fear by the screech of his fellbeast. Gandalf is half beaten and is about to be killed by the Witch-king, who says that the wizard has failed and the world of men will fall, when war horns sound outside the city, drawing their attention. Furious, the Witch-king lets out a shriek as he directs his fellbeast away from the fallen Gandalf to confront this new threat.
The Rohirrim army on the Pelennor Fields.
On the field, Gothmog prepares his Orcs for a second assault when he notices an army arriving in the distance. It is the Rohirrim, led by King Théoden, arriving at the Pelennor Fields. The Rohirrim look over the huge Orc army massing outside the city. Éowyn and Merry look at the enemy, and she tells the Hobbit that courage is needed if they are to save their friends. In the Orc lines, Gothmog realizes the risks to his army and has the pikemen go to the front lines, with archers behind them.
As this happens, King Théoden doesn't take the Orcs as a threat and rides past his army, giving his final commands. He says that spears shall be shaken, shields splintered, for this is a sword day and a red day - "Ere the Sun Rises!". As both armies prepare for the conflict, Théoden rides past the front lines of his men, tapping their spears with his sword. He says gloriously that they ride now - to ruin and the world's ending! The men all yell their war cry "Death!" and Théoden leads the charge.
The six thousand Rohirrim all charge down the field towards their opponents. Then, the Orcs, at Gothmog's command, fire their arrows upon the horsemen, but it is no use. The Orcs all panic as the Rohirrim draw closer and Gothmog realizes that it is too late. The Rohirrim crash into the Orcs and charge through their lines. The Orcs cannot withstand them, as they are all crushed beneath the trampling hooves. In the Tomb of the Stewards, Denethor prepares to burn himself and Faramir alive; however, it is quickly stopped as Gandalf speeds into the room, urging him to stop this madness.
However, Denethor refuses, asserting that "against the power that has risen in the East, there is no victory", and he sets the pyre alight. As Gandalf fights off Denethor's guards, Pippin jumps onto the pyre and manages to push Faramir out of the flames where he regains consciousness. Denethor realizes at that moment that his son is still alive, but by then he is too late to stop himself from burning. He runs out from the tomb, consumed in flames, and Gandalf says that "So passes Denethor, son of Ecthelion". Denethor runs across the Citadel and falls from the prow of the city, plummeting to his death.
The Mûmakil arrive and charge into the battle
Down on the field, the Rohirrim inflict heavy damage on the Orcs. After vicious fighting, the Orcs turn to flee and Éomer commands the Rohhirim to drive the Orcs towards the river. As victory comes and the Orcs flee, Théoden states in glee that the city is safe, but, he is wrong, as to the east, a much greater threat has arrived. The Rohirrim are horrified when they see a large row of Oliphaunts heading towards them.
Undeterred, King Théoden rally’s up his army again and charges them at the Oliphaunts. Many Rohirrim are quickly trampled by the Oliphaunts. Above them, thousands of Haradrim archers fire down on the horses. Rohirrim charge in large groups at the Mûmakil, but many are killed in the chaos. As the Rohirrim, including Gamling, fire arrows up into the Oliphaunts stomachs, Éomer rides out in front of one of the Mûmakil and manages to kill its captain with a spear, which causes his body to fall and dangle down the Oliphaunt's ear.
This causes the Oliphaunt to go un-controlled and crash into another Oliphaunt and both fall to the ground on top of each other. Meanwhile, Éowyn and Merry ride through the battle. Éowyn and Merry manage to bring one of the massive elephant-like beasts down by cutting at its legs. The Rohhirim, meanwhile, focus on one of the large Oliphaunts, distressing the beast by shooting at its head, and King Théoden orders several of his archers to take it down quickly.
Éowyn quickly goes to aid them and sends one spear into the creature's legs, bringing it down, but both Merry and Éowyn are thrown from their horse as the dead Mûmakil collapses. The two are left stranded amidst the huge battle. As King Théoden fights off numerous Orcs, Éowyn joins the fray, cutting down several Orcs with her blade. She also engages Gothmog in combat and ends up punching his face and wounding him. Elsewhere, Merry emerges from beneath one of the fallen Mûmakil and fends himself off from several Orcs and Haradrim warriors.
High up in Minas Tirith, the Orcs have overrun all the levels of the city up to half of the fourth level, where Gandalf, Pippin and the remaining Gondorian army prepare for another attack as fearsome Mountain Trolls hammer at the gates, the Witch-king goading them on as the Ringwraith flies past. Gandalf says to Pippin that this is not yet the end, that death is just one path that they must all one day take. He tells Pippin of the old grey curtain of this world sliding back and a bright sunlight and white shores filling the land. Pippin happily listens and decides that dying is not so bad, and Gandalf agrees. The troll continues to hammer at the gate and all that Gandalf and Pippin can do is wait for the assault.
Down of the field, more Rohirrim are being torn apart by the huge Mûmakil beasts. Théoden goes to rally up his men, but is suddenly thrown violently from his horse and severely injured by the Witch-king's fellbeast. Théoden's slain horse falls upon the King, pinning him down to the ground.
Éowyn suddenly comes face-to-face with the Witch-king, who is poised to finish off Théoden. He turns his attention to her and she stands her ground, slaying his fellbeast by beheading the creature, but then confronts the wraith himself. The Witch-king attacks her with a huge, deadly Morgul flail, and, after a brief duel, Éowyn's shield takes a direct hit from the Witch-king's flail, shattering it immediately, throwing Éowyn to the ground, injured.
Aragorn leads the Army of the Dead against the Orcs.
To the south of Minas Tirith, the Black Fleet arrives at the Harlond. The Orcs gather outside the ships, expecting reinforcements. However, instead, Aragorn leaps off the ships, followed by Legolas and Gimli. Gimli says that there is plenty for the both of them and let the best Dwarf win. Then, the huge Army of the Dead charges out onto the battlefield, slaying the Orcs, Aragorn leading the charge with Legolas and Gimli behind him.
The Witch-king slain by Éowyn.
Elsewhere on the battlefield, as the Witch-king moves in to kill Éowyn, arrogantly telling her that his power prevents any man from killing him, Merry suddenly stabs the wraith in the knee with his sword from Rohan, wounding himself in the process. As the Witch-king shrinks from the blow, Éowyn approaches with her sword drawn. Removing her helmet, Éowyn defiantly counters that she is no man and stabs him through his face. The Witch-king implodes and is destroyed.
Meanwhile, Aragorn charges through the Orcs, killing many. Also, Gimli and Legolas continue their competition in battle and engage the Orcs, cutting them down one by one. During the battle, Gothmog gets up, furious for revenge and limps towards Eowyn with an axe for support. Eowyn sees him and tries to crawl away and also tries to lift the sword of the unconscious Merry but it slips from her grip. Gothmog picks up a mace and prepares to finish off Eowyn. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli were running through the crowd and see Gothmog. Aragorn didn't know that he is saving some one's life and chops the right arm of Gothmog off while Gimli slices his stomach with his axe and Aragorn stabs him in the back which kills him. As the remaining Orcs are slaughtered by the ghosts, Legolas tries to show Gimli that he can gain a higher score with the killing and he skillfully manages to kill one of the crazed Mûmakil and its riders. As the beast collapses, Gimli says, angry and jealous towards the Elf, that it still counts as one. Aragorn and his companions then take out the remaining Orcs as the Dead Army begins to swarm Minas Tirith, destroying all the enemies inside. The battle ends when the remnants of the Orc and Haradrim army is completely annihilated by the Ghost army, those not overwhelmed fleeing.
Wounded, Éowyn crawls over to her dying uncle and Théoden quietly tells her how proud he is of her effort. He says that there is nothing else she can do, for his body is broken, but Éowyn says that she will save him. After several moments, Théoden dies in Éowyn's arms. The battlefield falls silent. As the sun rises over the aftermath, the survivors of the battle survey the carnage. Gathering outside Minas Tirith, the Army of the Dead confronts Aragorn and his companions, urging for him to release them. After several seconds of thought, Aragorn releases the Dead Army from their bondage, despite urgings from Gimli to keep them.
Gandalf bows to Aragorn and Aragorn smiles with their success. Pippin goes to search for Merry as Éomer discovers Éowyn, screaming in horror, believing her to be dead. Aragorn and Éomer take her to Minas Tirith. In Minas Tirith, the injured are tended to in the Houses of Healing. Among them, Éowyn is treated of her Morgul wound by Aragorn, with Éomer nervously watching.
Later, Éowyn awakens in a bed, where she sights Faramir, who is too healing. Out on the battle field, among the thousands of dead bodies, Pippin searches the battlefield frantically for Merry. Luckily, Pippin finds his cousin near the corpse of a dead Oliphaunt. Merry is wounded, but says that he knew Pippin would find him and asks if Pippin is going to leave him.
However, Pippin says that he won’t leave him; instead, he will look after him. The two are joyfully reunited. In Minas Tirith, the forces of Gondor and the remnants of the Rohirrim gather in the throne room to decide how to finish the war against Mordor. Meanwhile, at the Tower of Cirith Ungol, Frodo is still in the hands of the Orcs, who are searching through his belongings.
Two of the Orcs, an Uruk called Shagrat and the Orc Gorbag, begin fighting over his mithril shirt. After a brief brawl, Shagrat forces Gorbag down through a trapdoor, and into a large group of Black Uruks.
Shagrat commands them to kill Gorbag, and a huge fight ensues between the Orcs and the Uruks. In the fight, most of the Orcs in the tower and Uruks are killed in the huge Orc-to-Orc fight. Outside the tower, Sam arrives and finds the whole place filled with dead bodies of the slain Orcs and Uruks. Sam then goes to search for Frodo, and kills the surviving Orcs in a moment of intense courage. However, unknown to Sam, Shagrat makes his escape with the mithril vest. At the top of the tower, Frodo tries to pull himself free from his bonds, but is suddenly confronted by Gorbag, who says that he is going to kill Frodo. However, before he does, Sam arrives and stabs Gorbag through his torso.
Letting the dead Orc fall to the floor, Sam then greets Frodo, who apologizes for sending Sam away, but is distressed because he has lost the Ring. Sam than says that he hasn't, and produces it from his pocket, saying that he'd taken it from Frodo's unconscious body so the Orcs wouldn't find it. Sam begins to hand it back to Frodo and momentarily pauses, having been mesmerized by the Ring's power. Frodo brings him back from the Ring's spell and explains that the power of the Ring would destroy Sam’s soul. Sam returns it to Frodo, saying that they must leave and finish the Quest. Donning Orc armour, they take the road leading down to the Plains of Gorgoroth.
Inside Minas Tirith, Aragorn and his allies decide that the time has come. If Frodo is to succeed with his Quest, he must cross the Plains of Gorgoroth, however, ten thousand Orcs are on those plains. Gandalf believes that he has sent Frodo to his death, but Aragorn says that there is still hope for him - they could draw Sauron's armies out of Mordor through the Black Gate. This will empty the plains of Gorgoroth of Sauron's army and allow Sam and Frodo the chance to reach Mount Doom. Gandalf says that Sauron will suspect a trap; he will not take the bait. Aragorn, however, says that he will.
At night, Aragorn uses the palantír to tempt Sauron, saying that long has the Dark Lord haunted him, and long has he eluded him, but no more. Aragorn then goes to reveal to Sauron the blade of Elendil - Andúril. However, Sauron shows Aragorn a vision of Arwen dead and Aragorn, in his grief, drops the seeing stone, smashing the Evenstar. However, luckily, the ploy works and the fields of Mordor empty.
Aragorn, Gandalf, Legolas, Gimli, Éomer and the Hobbits Merry and Pippin, make their way towards Mordor, accompanied by the remaining armies of Gondor and Rohan, and they head to confront Sauron's army. In Minas Tirith, Éowyn believes that all hope is lost, but she is comforted by Faramir, who says that it is just the damp of the first spring rain. He tells her that no darkness will endure. The two happily embrace.
Meanwhile, Sam and Frodo, disguised as Orcs, make their way into the land of shadow: Mordor. They are found by a large detachment of Orcs, and are forced by their captain to march with the Orcs towards the Black Gate. Then, an inspection of the Mordor army is called and a large, bulgy Orc with no nose inspects the Orcs. Realizing that they might be found, Sam starts a fight with Frodo and, in the ensuing chaos, they escape onto the Plains of Gorgoroth as the Orcs continue their march to the Black Gate.
They continue their gruelling trek to Mount Doom. Losing their Orc armour, the hobbits climb up the ashen slopes, the Eye of Sauron looming behind them. They go to rest behind a rock where Sam notices a star in a gap of the ashen skies. He goes to remind Frodo, but the Hobbit falls asleep beside him. Meanwhile, Aragorn's army marches to the Black Gate.
Once at the Black Gate, Aragorn, Gandalf, Legolas, Gimli, Éomer, Merry and Pippin all ride forward in front of their army and up to the Black Gate. There, a corrupted Black Númenórean known as the Mouth of Sauron rides to them and says that his master bids them welcome. Gandalf tells him that the time of Sauron has come. It angers him but he smiles again and throws Frodo's mithril vest at Gandalf and says how Frodo suffered before dying. It lets a tear out of Gandalf's eye and the Black Númenórean smiles but Aragorn rides towards him. He says that it takes more than a broken Elvish blade to be a king but Aragorn suddenly draws Andúril and beheads him. Gimli says that it concludes negotiations. Aragorn says that he will never believe that Frodo is dead. In Mordor, Frodo and Sam walk across the hot, ashen slopes near Mount Doom. Eventually, as they draw closer to their goal, the Eye of Sauron continues to search the plains, until he is within sight of the two Hobbits. Sam quickly ducks down; avoiding Sauron's gaze, but Frodo is caught and collapses the power of the One Ring beating on his chest.
In Mordor, the Eye of Sauron turns away from the Hobbits and towards the Black Gates. Frodo and Sam continue their journey to Mount Doom. At the Morannon, the gates re-open and the final battle between Gondor's army and Mordor begins. The gates open all the way and the massive Orc army of ten thousand troops marches out, the Eye of Sauron watching in the background.
The future King of Gondor confronts the forces of Mordor
Aragorn rides forward in front of the forces of Rohan and Gondor and tell them to stand their ground. He says that he sees the fear in their eyes, the same fear that would take the heart of him. But not this day, as today, the age of men won't fall, as today - they fight! He bids the Men of the West stand in the final battle which they will not win, but it will give Frodo time to save Middle-earth. Aragorn turns to face the hordes of Mordor.
While climbing up the slopes of the Mountain of Fire, Frodo collapses and Sam comforts him, reminding him of the Shire and the strawberries that will be growing there in the spring and the birds that nest in the trees. Frodo, however, says that he can't taste food or see the light - he is naked in the dark, no light or comfort between him and darkness. Sam, however, says that they shall be rid of it - once and for all Then, Sam declares that he can't carry the Ring for Frodo, but he can carry him. with a final burst of strength, he lifts Frodo upon his back and moves him painfully up to Mount Doom.
Sam carries Frodo to Mount Doom
On Mount Doom, the hobbits approach the door to the Cracks of Doom and Gollum suddenly attacks, lusting for the Ring. He grabs Frodo by the throat and begins to strangle him. Luckily, before Frodo can be strangled, Sam throws a rock at Gollum's head, knocking him off. As the battle rages on at the gates, Gimli fights hard against the forces of Sauron and Legolas too fights off many attackers.
High above, the winged Nazgûl descend upon the battle. At Mount Doom, while Sam struggles with Gollum, Frodo slips away and runs inside the Chamber of Fire to the Cracks of Doom. Sam throws Gollum down the mountainside and slices his torso with his sword. He then quickly follows Frodo. At the Black Gate, Gandalf watches as the Nazgûl prepare to attack, but then sights the small Moth from when he was imprisoned on Orthanc, and knows it will bring hope.
Then, the Nazgûl are suddenly engaged in midair by the Great Eagles of the Misty Mountains. Pippin looks up and cheers as the Eagles attack the fellbeasts. Inside the Cracks of Doom, Frodo is standing on the edge of the bridge overlooking a huge pool of lava below. Sam pleads with him to drop the Ring in the fire and destroy it; however, Frodo pauses for several seconds as the power of the Ring taunts at his heart. Turning to face Sam, Frodo declares that the Ring is his and he pulls it of its chain, taking it towards his finger. Eventually, as Sam looks on, Frodo places it upon his finger, disappearing.
Sam screams in horror as Sauron turns his attention towards Mount Doom and the Ringwraiths swoop back toward Mordor. At the gates, Aragorn encounters an Olog-hai and duels the beast, only to be wounded and sent falling to the ground, Legolas tries to reach him, but he is stopped by the battle raging on around them. In the Cracks of Doom, Gollum attacks again, knocking Sam unconscious with a rock, and sees that Frodo has disappeared. However, this won't stop him, as Gollum quickly determines Frodo's location and leaps upon him, trying to get the Ring back with all his strength.
Sam tries to reach Frodo, but is still barely conscious, and Gollum angrily bites off Frodo's finger, causing the Hobbit to both re-appear and drop to the ground in pain as Gollum takes the Ring. Gollum is joyful that the One Ring is his at last. As he leaps about joyfully at being reunited with his prized possession, Frodo, enraged at this, fights Gollum, resulting in, after a brief, vicious brawl, Frodo and Gollum pushing each over the edge. Gollum falls into the lava with the Ring and sinks, but the Ring stays suspended.
Frodo is left hanging by one hand onto the cliff. Sam quickly rushes to him and convinces Frodo not to let go and pulls him up over the edge. The One Ring sinks into the boiling lava and melts, destroying it forever. Aragorn, who is about to be killed by the troll, is saved when the army of Mordor is distracted by the destruction of the Ring.
Barad-dûr collapses
As chaos erupts in the forces of Mordor, Sauron's tower of Barad-dûr, built with the power of the Ring, collapses, and the Eye of Sauron starts to die out. Then, after several moments of amazement to the men at the Black Gate, the Eye of Sauron explodes and disperses, taking the tower with it. Sauron is finally defeated, his spirit of malice fleeing. Merry, Gimli, Aragorn, Gandalf, Pippin and all the other companions all cheer in happiness. Then, the towers and gate of Morannon all collapse, and with them, the earth opens to swallow up much of Mordor's fleeing army.
With the fall of Barad-dûr and the demise of Sauron, the power of Mordor is broken, and Mount Doom meets its final fate... but did Frodo and Sam survive?
Frodo's friends react with joy to his success, but their happiness turns to grief as they see Mount Doom violently erupting and realize that Frodo and Sam must be doomed...The surviving Nazgûl fly toward Mount Doom, but are destroyed by fireballs from the volcano. In the exploding chamber of the Cracks of Doom, Sam carries his wounded master out of Mount Doom and onto the mountainside, where the two of them are surrounded by lava. Frodo, now freed from the power of the Ring, expresses his joy that the Ring is gone along with the Quest being done.
He imagines the light of the world and all is goodness whilst Sam says that Rosie Cotton would have been his wife. Frodo comforts Sam, here at the end of all things...
But, sometime later, the unconscious Frodo and Sam are rescued by three Eagles, Gwaihir, Landroval and Meneldor, Gandalf riding on Gwaihir. They swoop away and Frodo just awakens to see the sight of him being taken by the large eagle. Next morning, Frodo awakens in the Houses of Healing and is overjoyed to see Gandalf, whom he had thought dead. They laugh in delight.
One by one, the other six surviving members of the Fellowship of the Ring enter the room to greet and thank Frodo, Sam last. That day, the streets of Minas Tirith are filled and high up outside the Throne Hall; Aragorn is crowned as King of Gondor by Gandalf in front of his cheering subjects. Gandalf declares "Now come the days of the King!". During the ceremony, Aragorn greets Lady Éowyn and Lord Faramir, King Éomer of Rohan and a delegation of Elves, greeting Legolas with them, including Elrond and Arwen, who emerges from behind a banner.
Aragorn moves the banner slowly and kisses her passionately. The crowds all applause in happiness as Aragorn – King Elessar – is finally reunited with his one true love. Then, Aragorn and his people pay homage to Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin. They all bow to the hobbits and the Third Age comes to an end. The four Hobbits return to the Shire, where they realize that no one else will ever understand what they have done.
That night, in the Green Dragon Inn, the hobbits, now all together after their great quests, all settle to a drink when Sam, however, goes to marry Rosie Cotton. It works and both Sam and Rosie have their marriage ceremony and all the hobbits applaud.
Over time, Frodo begins to feel that he will be unable to continue his old life. Frodo continues Bilbo's memoir, calling his section of it The Lord of the Rings, but leaves several pages at the end of the Red Book. Sam arrives and Frodo says that it has been four years to the day when they were on Weathertop, and his wound has never fully healed.
The hobbits and Gandalf in the Grey Havens
That evening, Frodo, Sam, Merry, Pippin and Gandalf accompany the now-frail Bilbo Baggins to the Grey Havens, where the last Elven ship is waiting to depart Middle-earth. There, they find Elrond, Galadriel and Celeborn also waiting to board the ship. The Hobbits are surprised to learn that Gandalf will sail with Bilbo and the others, and even more shocked that Frodo is also sailing.
Frodo gives the Red Book to Sam to finish and bids a sad farewell to his three friends—Sam last, and kisses his forehead. Then he boards the ship to sail into the Undying Lands west of the sea, turning back to give his friends one last smile.
He boards the ship and sails away into the sun. Later, Sam returns home to Bagshot Row, his wife, and his first two children. He says to himself, "Well, I'm back" - as at the end of the book - closing the trilogy.
Characters
The Special Extended Edition release for the film includes many hours of behind-the-scenes documentaries, in the appendices "Part Five: The War of the Ring" and "Part Six: The Passing of an Age" (discs 3 and 4).
As with the previous movies, several scenes were removed from the theatrical version of The Return of the King, only to be present in the extended edition:
Gandalf: End? No, the journey doesn't end here. Death is just another path, one that we all must take. The grey rain-curtain of this world rolls back, and all turns to silver glass, and then you see it.
Pippin: What? Gandalf? See what?
Gandalf: White shores, and beyond, a far green country under a swift sunrise.
Pippin: Well, that isn't so bad.
Gandalf: No. No, it isn't."
On January 27, 2004 the film was nominated for eleven Academy Awards:
However, none of the ensemble cast received any acting nominations. On February 29, the film won all eleven Academy Awards, winning in every category for which it was nominated. It tied with Ben-Hur and Titanic for the most Oscars ever won by a single film, and broke the previous record for a sweep set by Gigi and The Last Emperor.
The film was the first of the fantasy genre to win the Best Picture award.
The film's win was also only the second time a sequel had won the Best Picture category (the first being The Godfather Part II).
In the opinion of some critics, however, this accolade was not just for the merits of the individual film, but more a reward for the trilogy as a whole, given that the first two films had not won the major awards of Best Picture or Best Director.
The film also won four Golden Globes, two MTV Movie Awards, two Grammy Awards, nine Saturn Awards and the Hugo Award.
According to British newspaper reports appearing on November 13, 2003, Christopher Lee was unhappy to learn that a seven-minute scene featuring a confrontation at Isengard in which Gandalf casts Saruman out of the order of wizards, would not be appearing in the finished film, and he decided to boycott the premiere as a result. Peter Jackson confirmed that this scene, although not in the theatrical release, would be included in the extended VHS and DVD editions. These were released on December 10 2004 in the UK and December 14 in the U.S., with an expanded length of 250 minutes (4 hours, 10 minutes) (slightly shorter in PAL versions). The final ten minutes of the extended DVD comprises a listing of the names of the charter members of the official fan club.
Christopher Lee apparently reconciled his differences with Peter Jackson because he appears on the behind-the-scenes documentaries and Cast Commentary on the extended DVDs.
The release of the theatrical edition had originally been scheduled for worldwide release in late August but actually appeared on May 25. The early release of the standard edition had led some fans to hope that the extended edition might be released as early as August, but the release was actually put back from mid-November, presumably because of the amount of work involved in preparing the extra footage and bonus material.
Other rumours suggested that the extended DVD might be a five or six-disc set, with the movie occupying three discs rather than two, and that the extended cut might be as long as six hours. In January 2004, Peter Jackson indicated that the then recently completed extended edition is actually four hours and ten minutes long. He mentioned the inclusion of the "Mouth of Sauron" scene, as well as Frodo and Sam running with the Mordor orcs. He also stated that not all of the unused footage shot for the movie would necessarily appear in the extended cut. (In the Director and Writers' Commentary on the extended DVD edition he jokes about including some scenes in a 25th Anniversary edition, provided he is not too senile to remember by then.)
The extended DVD is actually a 4-disc set like its predecessors, with the movie and commentaries occupying Discs 1 and 2 and the behind-the-scenes material on discs 3 and 4. A Collectors' Box Set was also released, which also included a sculpture of Minas Tirith and a bonus 50-minute music documentary DVD, Howard Shore: Creating The Lord of the Rings Symphony: A Composer's Journey through Middle-earth.
Fans also hoped that the extended discs would feature deleted scenes and outtakes, but none are included except for a few in the behind-the-scenes documentaries. There are further rumours of an even more spectacular Lord of the Rings Trilogy box set in the future, and Jackson has half-seriously mentioned the possibility of re-editing the trilogy into a TV miniseries, along the lines of the Godfather movies.
A sequence that did not make it from the book into the film at all despite the hopes of many fans, was the "Scouring of the Shire", in which the Hobbits return home at the end of their quest to find they have some fighting to do, owing to Saruman's takeover of the Shire. Jackson felt that it would tax the audience's patience to mount another battle scene after the critical conflict, the defeat of Sauron, had already been resolved.
In the book, the fall of Saruman takes place at the end of the scouring, but in the film's theatrical release Saruman is left trapped in the tower of Orthanc by the Ents. In the extended edition Saruman appears on the roof of Orthanc bearing a palantír and taunts Gandalf and his company with hints of a darkness in the heart of Middle-earth which will destroy them. (This is apparently a reference to Denethor's madness.) Saruman is shown to be far more hostile in this encounter. In the book, Gandalf destroyed Saruman's staff as a sign of casting him from the order of the wizards, but in the film, this is provoked by a fight. Saruman shoots a fireball at Gandalf, to no effect, and Gandalf commands Saruman's staff to shatter, defeating him. When Wormtongue appears, Théoden tries to encourage him to abandon Saruman. Wormtongue seems to consider this, but Saruman assaults him. Saruman is finally stabbed by Gríma Wormtongue (which in the book occurs at the end of the Scouring of the Shire) and Gríma is shot by Legolas (in the book he is shot by three Hobbits). Saruman falls from the tower and is impaled on a wooden stake projecting from a mill-wheel. (This is an homage to Lee's Dracula movies; Peter Jackson wanted to be the last director to drive a stake through his heart.) The palantír then falls into the water where it is found by Pippin. In the theatrical version, the palantír falls out of Saruman's voluminous sleeve into the water as the mill-wheel turns. In the book, Gríma throws the palantír at the company, not realising its value.
Fans hoped that several other key scenes from the book would be included in the extended cut, although inevitably not all of them were.
Several changes can be found in the scenes encompassing the Siege of Minas Tirith. In the film Denethor loses his mind and tells everyone to run for their lives, and Gandalf knocks him unconscious and rallies the defense of Minas Tirith. This did not happen in the book.
The Witch-king never broke Gandalf's staff in the book, and there was never any indication that Gandalf feared him in the least.
The pyre scene in the book involved Gandalf's rescuing Faramir, and Denethor's revealing the Palantir before burning himself. The film gives a more violent depiction, in which Gandalf physically assaults Denethor so that Pippin can pull Faramir off the pyre. Denethor tries to stop him, but Gandalf has Shadowfax kick Denethor into the flames. Before he dies, Denethor actually sees Faramir regain consciousness. Denethor is somehow able to run all the way to the peak of Minas Tirith and jump to his death. Denethor never reveals the palantír itself, although he makes a clear reference to it with the line "... the eyes of the White Tower..." in an earlier scene.
The Army of the Dead have an expanded role, including their leader the King of the Dead. The Dead not only defeat the Corsairs of Umbar, but follow Aragorn all the way to Minas Tirith and abruptly end the Battle of the Pelennor Fields. The extended edition shows the Dead destroying their city, presumably because they have no further need of it.
The Mouth of Sauron is decapitated by Aragorn, which is ironic given that the Mouth claimed to the right not to be assailed in the book, as he was an emissary. Gandalf also assured him of no harm.
Gollum does not topple over the edge of the precipice in Mount Doom. Instead, Frodo attacks him in an attempt to regain the One Ring, which results in both of them falling over the edge, with Gollum and the Ring dissolving in the lava and Frodo being saved by Sam.
The Lord of the Rings film trilogy is unusual in that it is, to date, the only one whose separate instalments were written and then shot simultaneously (excluding pick up shoots). Jackson admitted The Return of the King was the easiest of the films to make, because it contained the climax of the story, unlike the other two films. The Return of the King was originally the second of two planned films under Miramax from January 1997 to August 1998, and more or less in its finished structure as the first film was to end with The Two Towers' Battle of Helm's Deep. Filming took place under multiple units across New Zealand, between October 11, 1999 and December 22, 2000, with pick up shoots for six weeks in 2003 before the film's release.
Middle-earth as envisioned by Jackson was primarily designed by Alan Lee and John Howe, former Tolkien illustrators, and created by Weta Workshop, who handled all the trilogy's weapons, armour, miniatures, prosthetics and creatures, as well as the Art Department which built the sets. Richard Taylorheaded Weta, whilst Grant Major and Dan Hennah organized the planning and building respectively.
The city of Minas Tirith, glimpsed briefly in The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, is seen fully in this film, and with it the Gondorian civilization. The enormous soundstage was built at Dry Creek Quarry, outside Wellington, from the Helm's Deep set. That set's gate became Minas Tirith's second, whilst the Hornburg exterior became that of the Extended Edition's scene where Gandalf confronts the Witch-king. New structures included was the 8m tall Gate, with broken and unbroken versions, with a working opening and closing mechanism, with its engravings inspired by the Bapistry of San Giovanni. There were also four levels of streets with heraldic motifs for every house, as inspired by the city of Siena.
A fraction of Minas Tirith under construction.
There was also the Citadel, the exterior of which was in the Stone Street Studios backlot, utilizing forced perspective. It contains the withered White Tree, built from polystyrene by Brian Massey and the Greens Department with real branches, influenced by ancient and gnarled Lebanese olive trees. The Throne Hall interior was within a 3 story former factory in Wellington, with a throne for Denethor carved from stone and polystyrene statues of past Kings. The Gondorian armour is designed to represent an evolution from the Númenóreans of the first film's prologue, with a simplified sea bird motif. 16th century Italian and German armour served as inspiration, whilst civilians wear silver and blacks as designed by Ngila Dickson.
Minas Morgul, the Staircase and Tower of Cirith Ungol as well as Shelob's Lair were designed by Howe, with the Morgul road using forced perspective into a bluescreened miniature. Howe's design of Minas Morgul was inspired from the experience of having wisdom teeth pulled out: in the same way, the Orcs have put their twisted designs on to a former Gondorian city. Cirith Ungol was based on Tolkien's design, but when Richard Taylor felt it as "boring", it was redesigned with more tipping angles. The interior set, like Minas Tirith, was built as a few multiple levels that numerous camera takes would suggest a larger structure.
The third film introduces the enormous spider Shelob. Shelob was designed in 1999, with the body based on a funnel web spider and the head with numerous growths selected by Peter Jackson's children from one of many sculpts. Jackson himself took great joy in planning the sequence, being an arachnophobe himself. Shelob's Lair was inspired by sandstone and sculpted from the existing Caverns of Isengard set.
The Return of the King also brings into focus the Dead Men of Dunharrow and the evil Haradrim from the south of Middle-earth, men who ride the Mûmakil. The Dead Men have lines and symmetry to reflect their morbid state. The Haradrim were highly influenced by African culture, until Philippa Boyens expressed concern over the possibility of offensiveness, so the finished characters instead bear influence from Kiribati, in terms of weaving armour from bamboo, and the Aztecs, in use of jewellery. Also built was a single dead Mûmak. Other minor cultures include the Corsairs, with an exotic, swarthy look, and the Grey Havens, Elven structures adapted to stone, with influence from J. M. W. Turner paintings.
The Return of the King was shot during 2000, though Sean Astin's coverage from Gollum's attempt to separate Frodo and Sam was filmed on November 24, 1999, when floods in Queenstown interrupted the focus on The Fellowship of the Ring. Some of the earliest scenes shot for the film were in fact the last. Hobbiton, home of the Hobbits, was shot in January 2000 with early scenes from The Fellowship of the Ring, with the exterior shot at a Matamata farm, whilst interior scenes shot at Stone Street Studios in Wellington, shared with the Grey Havens sequence. Due to the high emotions of filming the scene, the cast were in despair when they were required to shoot it three times, due to a costume continuity flaw in Sean Astin's costume, and then negatives producing out-of-focus reels. Also shared with the previous films was the Rivendell interior in May.
The Battle of the Black Gate was filmed in April at the Rangipo Desert, a former minefield. New Zealand soldiers were hired as extras whilst guides were on the lookout for unexploded mines. Also a cause for concern were Monaghan and Boyd's scale doubles during a charge sequence. In the meantime, Wood, Astin and Serkis filmed at Mount Ruapehu for the Mount Doom exteriors. In particular, they spent two hours shooting Sam lifting Frodo on to his back with cross-camera coverage.
Jackson directs Astin
Scenes shot in June were the Paths of the Dead across various locations, including Pinnacles. In July the crew shot some Shelob scenes, and in August and September time was spent on the scenes in Isengard. Monaghan and Boyd tried numerous takes of their entrance, stressing the word "weed" as they smoked pipe-weed. Christopher Lee spent his part of his scene mostly alone, though McKellen and Hill arrived on the first day for a few lines to help.
Edoras exteriors were shot in October. The Ride of the Rohirrim, where Théoden leads the charge into the Orc army, was filmed in Twizel with 150 extras on horseback. The Battle of the Pelennor Fields has more extensive use of CGI, in contrast to the more extensive use of live action in the Battle of Helm's Deep in the second film. Also filmed were the attempts by Faramir to recapture Osgiliath, as were scenes in the city itself. At this point production was very hectic, with Jackson moving around ten units per day, and production finally wrapped on the Minas Tirith sets, as well as second units shooting parts of the siege. Just as the Hobbit actors' first scene was hiding under a Ringwraith, their last scene was the bluescreened reaction shot of the inhabitants of Minas Tirith bowing to them.
The 2003 pickups were filmed in the Wellington studio car park, with many parts of sets and bluescreens used to finish off scenes, which the design team had to work 24/7 to get the right sets ready for a particular day. The shoot continued for two months, and became an emotional time of farewells for the cast and crew. The film has the most extensive list of reshoots given for the trilogy. Jackson took his time to reshoot Aragorn's coronation, rushed into a single day under second unit director Geoff Murphy on December 21, 2000. Jackson also reshot scenes in and around Mount Doom, and Théoden's death, right after Bernard Hill was meant to wrap.
There was also the new character of Gothmog. This was a major new design addition for the film, as Jackson felt the Mordor Orcs were pathetic compared to the Uruk-hai of the second film after watching assembly cuts, and thus Weta created grotesque new über Orcs, as antagonists for the audience to focus on. Christian Rivers also redesigned the Witch-king and all of his scenes were reshot, due to confusion from non-readers over whether or not Sauron was on the battlefield.
With the positive response to Orlando Bloom, Legolas was given a fight with a mûmakil, and Howard Shore also got a cameo during Legolas and Gimli's drinking game at Edoras. The final scenes shot were Aragorn escaping the Skull avalanche, and Frodo finishing off his book. The cast also received various props associated with their characters, although in the case of John Rhys-Davies, he burnt his final Gimli prosthetic. Viggo Mortensen head-butted the stunt team goodbye. Pick-ups ended on June 27, 2003.
Scenes shot afterwards included various live-action shots of Riders for the Battle of the Pelennor Fields and a reaction shot of Andy Serkis as Gollum finally realizing Frodo intends to destroy the Ring, shot in Jackson's house. For the Extended DVD, Jackson shot a few shots of skulls rolling over for the avalanche scene in March 2004, the final piece of footage ever shot for the trilogy.
Post-production on The Return of the King began in November 2002, with the completion of the 4 1/2 hour assembly cut of the film that Annie Collins had been completing over 2001 and 2002, from 4 hour dailies. For example, Théoden leading the charge went from 150 minutes of takes to a finished 90 seconds. Jackson reunited with longtime collaborator Jamie Selkirk to edit the final film. Like The Two Towers, they would have to deal with multiple storylines, and Jackson paid attention to each storyline at a time before deciding where to intercut. Most importantly they spent three weeks working on the last 45 minutes of the film, for appropriate intercutting and leaving out scenes such as the Mouth of Sauron, and the fates of characters like Legolas, Gimli, Éowyn and Faramir. The film inherited scenes originally planned to go into the second film, including the reforging of Narsil, Gollum's back-story, and Saruman's exit. But the Saruman scene posed a structural problem: killing off the second film's villain when the plot was Sauron as the main villain. Despite pick-ups and dubs, the scene was cut, causing controversy with fans and Saruman actor Christopher Lee, as well as a petition to restore the scene. Lee nonetheless contributed to the DVDs and was at the Copenhagen premiere, although on the other hand he says he will never understand the reason for the cut and his relationship with Jackson is chilly. Jackson only had a lock on 5 out of 10 reels, and had to churn out 3 reels in 3 weeks to help finish the film. It was finally done on November 12. Jackson never had a chance to view the film in full during the hectic schedule, and only saw the film from beginning to end at the December 1 Wellington premiere.
The Return of the King contains 1,488 visual effect shots, nearly 3 times the amount of the first film, and almost 2 times the amount of the second film. Visual effects work began with Alan Lee and Mark Lewis compositing various photographs of New Zealand landscape to create the digital arena of the Pelennor Fields in November 2002. Gary Horsfield also created a digital version of the Barad-dûr during his Christmas break at home by himself, for the film's climax. In the meantime, Jackson and Christian Rivers used computers to plan the enormous battle up until February 2003, when the shots were shown to Weta Digital. To their astonishment, 60 planned shots had gone up to 250, and 50,000 characters were now 200,000. Nevertheless they pressed on, soon delivering 100 shots a week, 20 a day, as the deadline neared within the last two months, often working until 2a.m.
For the battle, they recorded 450 motions for the MASSIVE digital horses (though deaths were animated), and also had to deal with late additions in the film, such as Trolls bursting through Minas Tirith's gates as well as the creatures that pull Grond to the gate, and redoing a shot of two mûmakil Éomer takes down that had originally taken six months into two days. On a similar note of digital creatures, Shelob's head sculpt was scanned by a Canadian company for 10 times more detail than WETA had previously been able to capture.
Like the previous films, there are also extensive morphs between digital doubles for the actors. This time, there was Sam falling off Shelob, where the morph takes place as Astin hits the ground. Legolas attacking a Mûmakil required numerous transitions to and fro, and Gollum's shots of him having recovered the One Ring and falling into the Crack of Doom were fully animated. The King of the Dead is played by an actor in prosthetics, and his head occasionally morphs to a more skull-like digital version, depending on the character's mood. The Mouth of Sauron also had his mouth enlarged 200% for unsettling effect.
The Return of the King also has practical effects. In the Pyre of Denethor sequence, as the Steward of Gondor throws Pippin out of the Tomb, John Noble threw a dwarf named Fon onto a lying Billy Boyd, who immediately pushed his head into camera to complete the illusion. A few burning torches were also reflected onto a mirror and into the camera for when Gandalf's horse Shadowfax kicks Denethor onto the Pyre. Due to Jackson's requirement of complete realism with his fantasy world, numerous miniatures were built, such as 1:72 scale miniature of Minas Tirith, which rises 7m high and is 6.5m in diameter. 1:14 scale sections of the city were also required, and the Extended Edition scene of the collapsing City of the Dead has 80,000 small skulls, amounting in total to a single cubic meter. The miniatures team concluded in November with the Black Gate, after 1000 days of shooting, and the final digital effects shot done was the Ring's unmaking, on November 25.
There is some extra dialogue in Merry and Pippin's first scene at Isengard reuniting them with Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli. There is also the final confrontation between Gandalf and Saruman, in which Saruman is killed by Wormtongue, who in turn is killed by Legolas. Saruman lands on a spike on a wheel and drops the palantír. Edoras is extended, with the party containing a drinking game between Legolas and Gimli. Right before Pippin takes the palantír, Aragorn enters the Great Hall and has a conversation with Éowyn about a dream she had, about a great wave over a green countryside, which was originally Faramir's dream in the book.
At Minas Tirith, Pippin explains to Denethor how Boromir died, and Gandalf explains to Pippin how Gondor fell into ruin. Frodo, Sam and Gollum discover a ruined and defaced statue at the Cross-roads. When the Morgul signal for war begins, Sam warns Gollum about betrayal, eventually setting up the separation. When the Orcs cross the river it is shown the Gondorians were surprised, expecting an attack at Cair Andros. To further set up the battle, we also see Merry swearing loyalty to Théoden at Edoras after the lighting of the beacons. After Faramir arrives in Minas Tirith, there is a scene where Denethor confronts him for not taking the Ring, which includes his vision of Boromir. There is a friendly chat between Pippin and Faramir which sets up Pippin's later attempts to rescue him.
Restored villainy: Saruman, the Witch-king, and the Mouth of Sauron
The Paths of the Dead sequence is heavily revised, with ghostly arms, the avalanche of skulls and Aragorn's emergence from the mountain where the King of the Dead accepts his offer. This leads onto Aragorn attacking the Corsair ships, which includes a cameo by Peter Jackson as a character killed by Legolas. During the siege of Minas Tirith, the Orcs use a small battering ram on the gates before Grond arrives, and Gandalf's confronts the Witch-king as he comes to rescue Faramir, when his staff is broken. Gothmog also fights Éowyn during the battle, and attempts to finish her off as the battle closes before he is killed by Aragorn and Gimli.
The scenes between the end of the Pelennor battle and Black Gate battle is longer. Pippin's search for Merry is digitally graded to night to give the impression he has been searching for him all day. Éomer also finds Éowyn on the field and mourns when he thinks she is dead. Aragorn heals her and she falls for Faramir. Before Aragorn sets off, he confronts Sauron in the palantír, however Sauron shows Aragorn an image of an unconscious Arwen, which frightens Aragorn into backing away. Sam and Frodo get more time in Mordor: the fight among the Orcs in the Tower of Cirith Ungol is longer, and after Sam rescues Frodo, a surviving Uruk is seen sneaking off with Frodo's mithril shirt. Frodo and Sam are also diverted into the Orc march to the Black Gate and escape on a long journey, during which they throw away the last of their gear. Sam also sees a star through the clouds, symbolizing hope whilst Frodo merely rests with a burn on his neck. At the Black Gate, Aragorn, Gandalf, Legolas, Gimli, Pippin, Merry, and Éomer are first confronted by the Mouth of Sauron, suggesting that Frodo is dead, providing additional meaning to Aragorn's line "For Frodo". There is a final line of dialogue in which Gollum admits he lied about protecting Frodo.
After two years of attention and acclaim since the release of The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, audience anticipation for the final installment of the trilogy had reached fever pitch when the movie was complete. The world premiere was held in Wellington's Embassy Theatre, on December 1, 2003, and was attended by the director and many of the stars. It was estimated that over 100,000 people lined the streets, more than a quarter of the city's population.
The film received a universal acclaim from the critics and Audiences.
The film has a 93% rating of positive reviews on Rotten Tomatoes with an average rating of 8.7/10. The film was named best film of the year more than any other according to criticstop10.net. It was named 'Best film of 2003' by such critics as Lisa Schwarzbaum Entertainment Weekly, Richard Corliss of Time, Joe Morgenstern of the Wall Street Journal, and James Berardinelli of Reelviews.
An indication of the film's popularity amongst general audiences is the weighted average of 8.8/10 from 214,204 IMDb voters, placing it as the tenth best rated film. In February 2004, a few months after release, the film was voted as #8 on Empire's 100 Greatest Movies of All Time, compiled from readers' top 10 lists. In 2007, Total Film named The Return of the King the third best film of the past decade (Total Film's publication time), behind The Matrix and Fight Club.
After two years of attention and acclaim since the release of The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, audience anticipation for the final installment of the trilogy had reached a fever pitch when the movie was finally released to theatres on December 17, 2003. New Line Cinema reported that the film's first day of release (a Wednesday) saw a box office total of $34.5 million—an all-time single-day record for a motion picture released on a Wednesday (until Spider-Man 2 came along and grossed $40.4 million). This was nearly twice the first-day total of The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (which earned $18.2 million on its first day of release in 2001), and a significant increase over The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers as well (which earned $26.1 million on its first day in December 2002).
The substantial increase in initial box office totals caused optimistic studio executives to forecast that The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King would surpass The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers in total earnings. If this proved to be true, then this would be the first blockbuster movie trilogy for each successive film to earn more at the box office than its predecessor, when all three films were blockbuster successes. (The general opinion in movie circles in 2003 was that a movie had to earn more than $150 million to be considered a "blockbuster").
Poster of The Return of the King in Tokyo
These forecasts proved accurate. According to Box Office Mojo, between the time of the film's release, its winning the Academy Award for Best Picture on Sunday, February 29, 2004, and Thursday, March 11, 2004, Return of the King had earned approximately $1,052,547,293 in worldwide box office revenue—$368,875,000 in North America, and $683,649,123 in sixty countries worldwide. The final North American box office stands at $377,027,325, and the worldwide take is $1,118,888,979 (about $741 million overseas). The worldwide revenue is slightly enhanced compared to the earlier movies when converted to US Dollars because of the decline in the dollar's exchange rate in 2003. It was the second film in history to earn over $1 billion in box office revenue in its initial release (the first being Titanic in 1997). This compares favourably to the first two films of the trilogy: in their first 35 weeks of theatrical release in North America, the gross domestic box office of the first two movies was $313,364,114 and $339,789,881.
These figures do not include income from DVD sales, TV rights, etc. It has been estimated that the gross income from non-box office sales and merchandise has been at least equal to the box office for all three films; if this is so, the total gross income for the trilogy would be in the region of $6 billion, a very respectable return for a $300 million investment (although not by any means the best profit ratio ever seen in Hollywood - that prize belongs to The Blair Witch Project).
The total worldwide box office of The Return of the King as adjusted-for-inflation is (as of 2018): $1,340,222,465
The Hobbit is a cinematic trilogy adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkien's The Hobbit, distributed by New Line Cinema.
Guillermo del Toro had originally signed to direct the movies, but due to various delays and conflicts with schedules, announced that he would not be able to direct them. The position was later taken over by Peter Jackson, the director of the The Lord of the Rings films, who became Executive Producer. Certain cast (Ian McKellen, Andy Serkis, Orlando Bloom, Hugo Weaving, Elijah Wood, Ian Holm, Christopher Lee, Cate Blanchett ) and crew (Weta Workshop, John Howe, Alan Lee, Mark Ordesky) reprised their roles from the Lord of the Rings films. The three parts, entitled The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, and The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies were filmed back-to-back with the release dates December 2012, December 2013 and December 2014 by MGM and New Line Cinema. The production was originally planned as a two-part adaptation, but ultimately became a trilogy.
The Shire set
Walt Disney considered animating segments of The Hobbit and setting them to the sound of Wagner's Ring cycle for Fantasia, but was talked out of it. He continued having an interest in Tolkien books throughout the 1950s.
Tolkien had forwarded his publisher a suggestion in his fan-mail to have The Hobbit adapted as a four-part serial. Rayner Unwin rejected it for fear of it "incarcerating us in the Odens for eight or ten hours."
In 1961, Producer William L. Snyder entered negotiations with Tolkien to adapt the book to animation. Exploiting the fact that the books were temporarily public domain in the United States (due to a publication mishap) allowed him to lease the rights until 30th June 1967 for a downpayment of $15,000. He commissioned Gene Deitch to write and animate, but couldn't get funding and ended up compelling Deitch to condense the film into a single reel (12 minute) short which was shown to twelve people in a projection booth in New York. He then sold the rights to United Artists, who were buying them off of Tolkien at the time.
In 1972, Vance Gerry of Disney sent a memo about The Hobbit, including concept art of Bilbo, a synopsis of the book and the admission that the story contains "far more incidents in the story than we could ever use" and that "many sections are too frightening for our purposes." With the rights sitting with United Artists, it went no further. Instead, Saul Zaentz got an option on The Hobbit when he set out to make The Lord of the Rings with Ralph Bakshi. With the project discontinued after the first entry, Zaentz was left with the rights to produce an adaptation of The Hobbit, while the distribution rights stayed with MGM, who were previously involved with Bakshi's film.
Arthur Rankin Junior exploited the loophole in the US publication of The Hobbit to begin developing it into a TV Special. To air in Canada, the special was eventually "authorized through a series of settlement agreements." George Lucas was rumoured to have had an interest in The Hobbit in the 1980s, having pulled on it for inspiration for Star Wars. Instead, he and Ron Howard made Willow in 1988. Other than two unathorized Soviet adaptations, the rights to The Hobbit would remain untouched.
Peter Jackson had an interest in making a fantasy film, and watched the 1980s Sword-and-Sorcery movies, noting that many of them were "B-grade" and "blatantly Middle Earth-ish", with Willow being deemed "meaningless fantasy mumbo-jumbo" and Bakshi's Lord of the Rings "ambitious" but "incoherent." He hadn't seen the Rankin/Bass TV Special, which didn't air in New Zealand.
Peter Jackson and his parner Fran Walsh started developing an original fantasy film in 1995, before they decided to try and adapt Tolkien's works. Jackson wanted to adapt The Lord of the Rings, but Walsh then suggested they should start with The Hobbit, which Jackson hadn't read until that time. He tentativelly pitched Miramax to film The Hobbit, and shoot two The Lord of the Rings films back-to-back afterward. Producer Harvey Weinstein was enthusiastic, but couldn't get the rights to The Hobbit, which were still split between Zaentz and a now-bankrupt MGM. Harvey even attempted to buy the rights off of them but proved unsuccesful, suggesting that The Hobbit be postponed as a possible prequel. Jackson had read The Hobbit by now, and even told Richard Taylor to begin designing it before the decision was made to proceed with The Lord of the Rings.
When The Lord of the Rings was put on a turnaround and went to New Line, the rights to The Hobbit once again proved unavailable, but Jackson said "New Line will definitely make The Hobbit if LotR is a success." Jackson and his co-writers "couldn't help ourselves" from putting references to The Hobbit into The Lord of the Rings. They had looked at artwork for The Hobbit (Bag-End was designed off of an illustration that John Howe had done for The Hobbit) and even delved back into the story (with the help of Henry Mortensen) to ascertain that Thorin's Map ended-up with Bilbo. However, during preproduction on The Lord of the Rings, Jackson expressed an opinion that "it would actually be harder to adapt into a satisfying movie than The Lord of the Rings", citing the tone, the lack of character development and the size of the Dwarf ensemble. He was unsure whether he would direct such an adaptation, saying it "depends on my mental condition in 3 years!" During production, Elijah Wood inquired him on this, and Jackson said he "was not interested in that." However, during post-production on The Two Towers he and Fran Walsh spoke to executive producer Mark Ordesky about doing an adaptation of The Hobbit and a "Lord of the Rings prequel" set between it and The Lord of the Rings. Philippa Boyens even started toying with casting ideas.
After The Lord of the Rings trilogy, New Line wanted to proceed with The Hobbit, as their lease on the rights from Zaentz was due to expire in 2010. In September 2006, the new ownership and management of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer expressed interest in teaming up with New Line and Jackson to make The Hobbit. 
In March 2005, Jackson launched a lawsuit against New Line, claiming he had lost revenue from merchandising, video and computer games releases associated with The Fellowship of the Ring. He did not seek a specific settlement, but requested an audit to see whether New Line had withheld money owed him. Although Jackson wanted it settled before he would make the film, he felt the lawsuit was minor and that New Line would still let him make The Hobbit. New Line co-founder Robert Shaye was annoyed with the lawsuit and said in January 2007 that Jackson would never again direct a film for New Line, accusing him of being greedy. Shaye approached MGM CEO Harry Sloan with a proposal to adapt The Hobbit (and potentially the "bridge" film proposed by Jackson) with Sam Raimi tipped to direct. Sloan had "heard bad things" about Jackson, and wanted to hear his size, calling his agent Ken Kamins, and finally having dinner with Kamins, Jackson and Walsh. By the end, he called Shaye, demanding that he "fix your Peter Jackson problem." With New Line suffering a series of financial flops in the fantasy genre, and Raimi himself wanting Jackson's blessing, Shaye was trying to repair his working relationship with Jackson. Shaye said, "I really respect and admire Peter and would love for him to be creatively involved in some way in The Hobbit." In September, New Line was fined $125,000 for failing to provide requested accounting documents.
On December 18, 2007, it was announced that Jackson would be executive producer of The Hobbit and its sequel. It was hoped that back-to-back shooting on these films would begin in 2009 for December 2010 and December 2011 releases, respectively. It was also announced that New Line and MGM would co-finance the films, and the latter studio would distribute the films outside North America — New Line's first ever such deal with another major studio. Producer Mark Ordesky returned to supervise the prequels, and it was initially announced that each film would cost around US$150 million.
Jackson began delving back into the story, both as presented in The Hobbit as well as the appendices of The Lord of the Rings, pointing out that "one of the drawbacks of The Hobbit is [that] it's relatively lightweight compared to Lord of the Rings... There [are] a lot of sections in which a character like Gandalf disappears for a while. From memory — I mean, I haven't read it for a while now — but I think he references going off to meet with the White Council, who are actually characters like Galadriel and Saruman and people that we see in Lord of the Rings. He mysteriously vanishes for a while and then comes back, but we don't really know what goes on."
While Raimi was still tentativelly attached, Jackson had wanted Guillermo Del Toro to direct, after having worked with him on an adaptation of Halo. In spite of having made negative remaks earlier about "sword and sorcery", Guillermo "was very enthusiastic about doing it" when they met him in LA and in April 2008 he signed on to direct both pictures, and it was believed he would move to New Zealand for four years after finishing Hellboy II: The Golden Army to develop the trilogy with Jackson and the teams at WETA and Wingnut Films.
The Tolkien Estate filed a lawsuit against New Line on February 11 2008, for violating Tolkien's original deal with Saul Zaentz that they would earn 7.5% of the gross from a film adaptation. The Estate sought compensation of $150 million, because they were only paid $62,500 before production of the trilogy began. A court order was also filed that would allow the Tolkien Trust to terminate any rights to future films based on Tolkien's work, including The Hobbit and the second derivative prequel.
After he signed on to direct in April 2008, Del Toro posted on TheOneRing.net forums that he had been enchanted by The Hobbit as a child, but found that Tolkien's other books "contain[ed] geography and genealogy too complex for my prepubescent brain". In taking the job of director, del Toro was now "reading like a madman to catch up with a whole new land, a continent of sorts—a cosmology created by brilliant philologist turned Shaman". He wrote that his appreciation of Tolkien was enhanced by his knowledge of the fantasy genre, and the folklore research he had undertaken while making his own fantasy films.
Pre-production began around August 2008, with del Toro, Jackson, Walsh and Philippa Boyens writing the scripts. Del Toro collaborated with Jackson, Walsh and Boyens via videoconferencing and flew every three weeks, back and forth from Los Angeles (where some of the designs were done) to New Zealand to visit them. For the first meeting, Jackson, Walsh and Boyens flew to LA and told Guillermo about some of the parts of the story that they wanted to flesh-out such as Dol Guldur and the White Council. They also spoke of the "bridge" film, with Del Toro later remarking that the sequel would be about "trying to reconcile the facts of the first movie with a slightly different point of view. You would be able to see events that were not witnessed in the first." Del Toro spent his mornings writing and afternoons looking at material related to Tolkien to help him understand the writer's work. He watched World War I documentaries and asked for book recommendations from Jackson, who is a collector of World War I memorabilia. Del Toro felt Tolkien's experiences in that war influenced his stories.
By November 2008, del Toro had said that he, Jackson, Walsh and Boyens would realise something new about the story every week and the script was continually changing. The writing hours increased to twelve each day, as they dedicated three weeks to finally deciding the films' structures. The "bridge" film idea was abandoned in favour of splitting The Hobbit into two parts: they had considered having the first film end with the arrival at the Hidden Door, but this resulted in the first film being "enormously long" compared to the second, and they instead decided to split it at the moment the company encounter Bard before entering Laketown. During the first few months of 2009, writing would start from 8:30 am and end at 3:00 pm when del Toro would meet with Weta (i.e., Weta Workshop and Weta Digital film effects companies). Completion of the story outlines and treatments ended in March 2009, and the studios approved the start of writing the screenplay.
Filming was expected to take place throughout 2010 in New Zealand, with del Toro renovating the Hobbiton sets near Matamata. For his part, Jackson had kept the Rivendell scale model and the Bag End set (which he has used as a guest house) from the trilogy. During the middle of the shoot, there was expected to be a break which would have allowed del Toro to edit The Hobbit while sets would be altered for the second film. The director expected the shoot to last 370 days.
Jackson revealed in late November 2009 that he anticipated that the script for The Hobbit would not be finished until the beginning of 2010, delaying the start of production until the middle of that summer (several months later than previously anticipated). The announcement created doubts about whether the film would make its previously-announced release dates of December 2011 and December 2012. Jackson reiterated that no casting decisions had been made. On 22 January 2010, Alan Horn said the first film would likely not be released until the fourth quarter of 2012.
Del Toro met with Ian McKellen, Andy Serkis, and Hugo Weaving, who hoped to reprise their roles as Gandalf, Gollum and Elrond respectively. He and Jackson also expressed interest in having Ian Holm return for a cameo at the beginning, using a framing device to have the "older Bilbo be our way into the story." Having toyed with the idea of casting Martin Freeman as the younger Bilbo Baggins since meeting him in 2002, Boyens suggested him to an eager Del Toro. Sylvester McCoy, who had earlier been considered as a possible substitute for Holm during The Lord of the Rings, was suggested for Radagast. The part of Beorn was written by Del Toro specifically for American actor Ron Perlman. Del Toro had originally considered asking Perlman to voice the dragon Smaug, but decided against this. Del Toro met with English actor Brian Blessed to discuss the possibility of him playing Thorin Oakenshield. The director later stated that he thought Ian McShane "would make the most perfect dwarf". Frequent del Toro collaborator Doug Jones said that he would love to play the Elvenking Thranduil, but del Toro later stated that he had another role (or roles) in mind for the actor.
During the writing, they had considered many possible development. Del Toro agreed with his co-writers that the book lacked female characters. They suggested redressing this by giving Bard a wife, but Del Toro said the new female character shouldn't be someone's wife, and instead insisted that she be a warrior. Walsh suggest she should be an Elf, and she was tentativelly caled Itarielle. They wanted a prologue of the sack of Erebor, and Del Toro had expressed interest in dramatizing a scene from the Appendices where Gandalf meets Thorin in Bree.
Del Toro also met concept artists John Howe and Alan Lee, Weta Workshop head Richard Taylor, make-up artist Gino Acevedo and composer Howard Shore to keep continuity with the previous films. Del Toro said that he thought the world of The Hobbit was a "world that is slightly more golden at the beginning, a very innocent environment [...] taking you from a time of more purity to a darker reality throughout the film, but [in a manner] in the spirit of the book". Del Toro also hired comic book artists to complement Howe's and Lee's style on the trilogy, including Mike Mignola and Wayne Barlowe, who began work around April 2009. He has also considered looking at Tolkien's drawings and using elements of those not used in the trilogy. As Tolkien did not originally intend for the magic ring Bilbo finds to be the all-powerful talisman of evil it is revealed to be in The Lord of the Rings, del Toro said he would address its different nature in the story, but not so much as to draw away from the story's spirit. Each Dwarf would need to look different from the others. WETA Workshop had began building armour for Thorin, which had horns coming out of the helmet. Del Toro would have redesigned the Goblins and Wargs and the Mirkwood spiders would also have looked different from Shelob. Del Toro felt the Wargs had to be changed because "the classical incarnation of the demonic wolf in Nordic mythology is not a hyena-shaped creature".
He also intends to push the technology of animatronics to new levels; wanting to do animatronic Trolls that would roll into balls. "We really want to take the state-of-the-art animatronics and take a leap ten years into the future with the technology we will develop for the creatures in the movie. We have every intention to do for animatronics and special effects what the other films did for virtual reality."
Del Toro also wanted the animals to speak so that Smaug's speech would not be incongruous, though he explained portraying the talking animals would be more about showing that other characters can understand them. Smaug would not have a "snub Simian [mouth] in order to achieve a dubious lip-synch". Del Toro stated that Smaug would be the first character design begun and the last to be approved. The design was described as akin to a "flying ax" and caused some concern among his collaborators, but ultimately "the visual aspect was under my control." Other design ideas included a steampunk Erebor and an oriental-looking Woodland Realm, with the Elvenking possibly having tattooes.
In 2010, del Toro left the project because of ongoing delays. On 28 May he explained at a press conference that owing to MGM's financial troubles the Hobbit project had then not been officially green-lit at the time. "There cannot be any start dates until the MGM situation gets resolved .... We have designed all the creatures. We've designed the sets and the wardrobe. We have done animatics and planned very lengthy action sequences. We have scary sequences and funny sequences and we are very, very prepared for when it's finally triggered, but we don't know anything until MGM is solved." Two days later, del Toro announced at TheOneRing.net that "In light of ongoing delays in the setting of a start date for filming", he would "take leave from helming", further stating that "the mounting pressures of conflicting schedules have overwhelmed the time slot originally allocated for the project. ... I remain an ally to it and its makers, present and future, and fully support a smooth transition to a new director". Reports began to surface around the Internet about possible directors; apparently the studios wanted Jackson, who was wary of taking the reins, and such names as Neill Blomkamp, Brett Ratner, David Yates and David Dobkin were mentioned. However, this incident has received negative reaction from many Hobbit fans, who have been angry at MGM for delaying the project. They also tried willing the studio to sell their rights to Warner Brothers. On July 27, del Toro responded to these angry fans, saying that "It wasn't just MGM. These are very complicated movies, economically and politically." However, some fans were still displeased by the studio's crisis.
On June 25, 2010, Jackson announced that he probably would direct "two installments of Hobbit films". He was in negotiation with MGM and Warner Brothers to start shooting the films at the end of 2010. However, they still didn't have a green-light and they were having difficultly getting people cast without a director. Casting director Liz Mullane and producer Carrolyne Cunningham went to Jackson with this, and he called his agent (and the films' executive producer) Kem Kamins: "We can't move ahead until this is confirmed." In October of 2010, the film finally received a greenlight to begin production with Peter Jackson as the films director in addition to writer and producer. An agreement was struck between Jackson, MGM and Warner Brothers, which would allow filming to commence around February of 2011 with an estimated budget of $500,000,000 for the two films. Jackson
At Jackson's behest, Del Toro called Martin Freeman to tell him he was still their choice for the part. However, Freeman had thought the project was delayed indefinitely and agreed on shooting a second season of Sherlock. They had looked into other actors, including Matthew Goode, James McAvoy, Tobey Maguire and Shia LeBeouf. Eddie Redmayne auditioned, but based his performance too closely on Ian Holm. Adam Brown's audition tape was deemed "hillarious" and it was decided to cast him as one of younger Dwarves (ultimately, Ori) and write him around his audition. Dean O'Gorman also auditioned for the part. Jackson eventually called Freeman's agent personally in the middle of the night, asking if Freeman "would be willing to do The Hobbit" if they could rejig the schedule to accomodate his filming of Sherlock?
Jackson met Ian Holm in order to ask him to briefly reprise the role of old Bilbo. The actor told him he had contracted Parkinson's and was "basically retired but wasn't announcing it." Jackson and Walsh explained the scenes they would have liked to do, which spurred Ian's enthusiasm and it was decided he would shoot his scenes in London.
While Sylvester McCoy remained their only choice for Radagast, they did audition "just to see who's out there" and saw John Callen, whom they then had auditioned again as a Dwarf, eventually casting him as Oin. It was confirmed Sir Ian McKellen would reprise his role as Gandalf the Grey. Christopher Lee, who played Saruman in Jackson's films, said he would have liked to have shown the Wizard's corruption by Sauron, but he would not be comfortable flying to New Zealand at his age. However, later on, it was confirmed that he would in fact be reprising his role as Saruman, with his footage being shot in the UK. Lee also toyed with the idea of voicing Smaug, but Jackson recieved an audition tape for Benedict Cumberbatch (which was done without framing his face in) and cast him.
They saw several actors for Thorin, of which Richard Armitage was the youngest. In spite of "imagining an older Thorin", they were absolutely taken with Armitage's audition and cast him in the role. The other Dwarves were all selected by first auditioning them for the part of Gloin, with dialogue representing all the Dwarf characters. Mark Hadlow auditioned for the part, and then to another undisclosed part before he succesfully read for Dori. Stephen Hunter, who gave an "upbeat" audition, was cast as Bombur. For Gloin himself, they looked at Bill Bailey (who was previously considered for Gimli) but cast Peter Hambelton. Aidan Turner read for Galion, but was cast as Kili. Rob Kazinsky was cast as Fili, but had to leave due to "health issues" a few days into filming. Jackson recalled O'Gorman's audition for Bilbo, and he was asked to read opposite Aidan. Ken Stott was their first choice for Balin, although they also had Graham McTavish read for the role after reading for Dwalin, and had considred Peter Mullan. Billy Connoly, another contender for Gimli, was offered the role of Dáin.
Having seen him in The Fall, Jackson wanted Lee Pace as Thranduil. They had met Evangeline Lilly previously, and she came to mind as Tauriel from very early on, but she had considered retiring from acting, and had just given birth and was bed-ridden. Jackson had considered Eva Green, but ultimately tried Lilly, who said yes.  Orlando Bloom jokingly asked Jackson for a cameo, before being asked to return to the part.
William Kircher and Lord Julian Fellowes read for the Master of Laketown, but Jackson wanted Stephen Fry for the part, and decided to recast Kircher as Bifur. Ryan Gage read for Alfrid after the manner of "a used car salesman" but was cast as Drogo Baggins before the part was written out of the script, reverting him back to the role of Alfrid.
During the table-read of the script, William Kircher and others stood-in for the Trolls, and it was eventually decided to have them voice the three Trolls. Conan Stevens was cast to play Azog, before a redesign of the character was called for, leaving Conan's Azog to be reconceptualized as the "dungeon keeper" of Dol Guldur. Mark Rawlins was then cast, before his Orc design was repurposed (and recast) as Yazneg. Manu Bennet was cast towards the end of production to motion-capture Azog.
Jackson had looked over all the artwork left from Del Toro. He decided he couldn't "impersonate" Del Toro and had to redesign the movie, but he nevertheless kept certain ideas, pointing to Laketown as being close to Del Toro's interpertation. Mirkwood was based on Del Toro's concept of an artificial, brightly-coloured forest. Del Toro's armour for Thorin was in place for a while, before it was replaced with a design featuring a raven motif.
Erebor was designed around the geometric designs established for the Dwarves in The Fellowship of the Ring, and given a green colour based on Jade, given the position of the Mountain in the north-east of Middle Earth. Some of Del Toro's ideas for a "steampunk" Erebor were used for the forges, glimpsed in An Unexpected Journey and later added to the climax of The Desolation of Smaug.
The Woodland Realm maintained some of the orientalist influence inspired by Del Toro. Philippa Boyens provided reference for Thranduil with an image of Tom Ford. Tauriel was first designed with a flowing costume made of metal scales, which didn't complement the post-pregnancy Lilly and was cast aside in favour of a green costume. The armour was designed from a "Sindaring Shield" that Howe had designed for the films during Del Toro's tenure.
An early Del Toro design of Smaug was used a placeholder before Jackson settled on a Jamie Beswarick sculpture. Smaug was designed but not finalized before the first film was completed, and in finalizing the design in February 2012, it was decided he should have just two hindlegs instead of four. In fear of doing "another DragonHeart" Jackson rewrote Smaug to talk to Bilbo psychically through the power of the Ring, but when he saw a previz of those scenes, it was decided to go back to a lipsynched performance, and they even let Cumberbatch do some motion capture for reference to Smaug.
Some designs were taken from The Lord of the Rings: when he was first tasked with designing the rooms for Bag End in 1998, John Howe designed a pantry and a dining room, with the latter having been built but never shown. Both featured in the script and shown in An Unexpected Journey. The White Council chamber of Rivendell was based on a chamber designed for the Council of Elrond before it was decided to hold it in Elrond's study.
On September 24, 2010, the International Federation of Actors issued a Do Not Work order, advising members of its member unions (including the Screen Actors Guild) that "The producers...have refused to engage performers on union-negotiated agreements." This would subject actors who work on the film to possible expulsion from the union. In response, Warner Bros and New Line Cinema considered taking the production elsewhere, with Jackson mentioning the possibility of filming in Eastern Europe. Disgruntled Hobbit fans also believe it was MGM who started this dispute because of their financial troubles delaying the project, but in reality, it wasn't.
On 25 October 2010, thousands of New Zealanders organized protest rallies imploring that production remain in New Zealand, as shifting production to locations outside New Zealand would potentially have cost the country's economy up to $1.5 billion. After two days of talks with the New Zealand government, Warner Bros. executives decided, on the 27th of October, to film The Hobbit in New Zealand as originally planned. In return, the government of New Zealand agreed to introduce legislation to clarify the distinction between independent contractors and employees working in the film production industry, and also broaden the government's financial support for big budget films made in New Zealand.
Principal photography began on 21 March 2011 in Wellington, New Zealand. It was divided into three "blocks" with the time in between used to scout more locations, approve more designs and look over some of the footage, which was being cut by editor Jabez Olssen on the set.
Filming began on at Wellington Stone Street Studios, with the shot of Bilbo looking through the mushrooms, having fallen into Gollum's cave with a Goblin imp. It was decided to begin the shoot with those scenes so as to complete work on the Dwarf costumes, and give Freeman an easier scene with which to "find Bilbo." Andy Serkis, playing Gollum, smashed the Goblin animatronic during the first day, and over the next couple of days he and Freeman performed the "Riddles in the Dark" sequence over and over again in its entirety. During photography, Serkis would splash water as part of his performance, which resulted in a couple of the cameras used to capture his facial performance breaking down.
They then moved to shooting the Dwarves in Bag-End. The scenes, which included a 90-second long take, utilized a matching greenscreen set with a camera slaved to the one used on the live set, which would allow Ian McKellen to appear in-scale as Gandalf on the monitor. This caused McKellen great discomfort in performing off of an earpiece, but Jackson asssured him "its not always going to be like this."
Jackson restored the original Rivendell set, redressed with golden highlights, to shoot the next scenes. By now the Dwarves were asked to wear heavy packs along with their already heavy costume (which included a fat-suit to make them seem squat) and required fans and cooling suits to keep cold and hydrated. Jackson had resorted to avoid calling "cut", which resulted in time being lost because of make-up and costume checks required for the Dwarves. Instead, scenes were shot take immediately after take, to help the actors keep "the energy of the scene going."
The scenes between the Shire and Rivendell were shot later.
The second block of shooting in New Zealand began at the end of August and was completed in December 2011. It included a concentrated period of location shooting, including Hobbiton, an early version of the entrance to Mirkwood, Wilderland and the Desolation of the dragon.
The Elves started shooting in this block. Jackson, Walsh and Boyens had considered pushing Tauriel's love story further, shooting a version of her meeting with Kili that had a stonger sense of "immediate, unexplainable chemistry" and even had them kiss on the Lakeshore just before Legolas intervened, but with input from Lilly it was decided to tone these aspects of the love story down.
The third block of shooting began in 2012 and extended until 6 July 2012, after 266 days of filming. At the beginning of the block, motion-capture work was done for Smaug and the Necromancer by Benedict Cumberbatch, who also visited the set while the company were shooting the scenes outside the Hidden Door. Manu Bennet was cast to shoot Azgo on the motion-capture stage, as well. Early footage of the Battle of the Five Armies was shot, including fighting in the streets of Dale an some early footage of Iron-Hill Dwarf ranks, but Jackson was unhappy with those portions of the scripts, and hadn't had the storyboards to the battle completed, and it was decided to postpone the bulk of the work on the battle to the 2013 pickups for the second film. Much of the Erebor prologue was shot in the last few days of production, with Thorin's funeral shot on the last day.
Around 24 June 2012, Jackson and his co-writers saw a rough-cut of the two films as they currently stood, and sat down to "talk about the shape of the two films." It "didn't structurally feel quite right where one finished and the other began" and they wanted to discuss what they wanted to shoot further in the pickups. "What if it was a trilogy?" Jackson asked. They started writing a treatment based on the scripts that reshaped the films into a trilogy. When shooting ended, the executive producers came down to New Zealand to congratulate the filmmakers, who proceeded to pitch the treatment to them. They then announced it to the public, saying "We recognized that the richness of the story of The Hobbit, as well as some of the related material in the appendices of The Lord of the Rings, gave rise to a simple question: Do we tell more of the tale? And the answer from our perspective as filmmakers and fans was an unreserved 'yes.'"
Two weeks of pickups were scheduled for the editing of the first film in 2012. During the pickups, various inserts were shot including Bilbo drawing Sting from its scabbard after some inspirational words from Gandalf, a shot of Bilbo and Thorin overhearing Gandalf and Elrond debating. Two beats were added to the High Pass sequences, first with Bilbo falling off the ledge and rescued by Thorin who then grumbles that the Hobbit "should never have come", followed by a scene between Bilbo and Bofur right before the Goblin trap-door opens: these were intended to set-up a passage already shot in principal photography during which Bilbo regroups with the company towards the end of the film. Also added were a few quick inserts of Azog, including a brief scene on Weathertop, and new takes of a few shots including the Goblins first seeing Orcrist and the final reconciliation of Thorin and Bilbo on the Carrock.
To accomodate for the added film, the pickup shoot was expanded from six weeks to eight. The actors' were only contracted for two pickup shoots from back when it was two films, and the 2013 pickups would have to account for both of the later entries. In 2012, Jackson said that the 2013 pickups would mostly be for the third film rather than the second. At that point, the film was titled There and Back Again, and was scheduled to release in July 2014 but was pushed to December 2014. Jackson had convinced Warners to change the title to The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, in spite of Warners saying that "films with the word battle in the title don't do very well at the box office."
Jackson had spent the beginning of 2013 writing the scenes needed for the pickups, and comissioning artwork and previz. Pickups started with Thorin and Gandalf's meeting in Bree, and included a couple of The Desolation of Smaug: Balin admonishing Thorin for not being "yourself" upon hearing the rumbling of Smaug was shot, as was a new entrance to Mirkwood. The live-action components of the Battle of the Forges, concieved as a new climax for the second film, was shot. Thrain's scenes were reshot with a new actor, Antony Sher. Instead of Azog killing him, it would now be Sauron.
Seeing the footage of various scenes in which Kili and Legolas stare at one another, the filmmakers decided to add an insert where Thranduil tells Tauriel that Legolas "had grown very fond of" her. Lilly erroneously attributed this addition to Warners, but agreed that "played well." Also shot were the scenes in Gundabad, replacing an earlier version where it was Gandalf - riding east after the Necromancer - who would have discovered the second army.
The footage for the Battle of the Five Armies included the confrontation between Tauriel and Thranduil and the various Ravenhill scenes, culminating in Thorin's duel with Azog and subsequent death, which concluded the pickup shoot. Ravenhill was earlier considered as a stage for some of the fighting, but it wasn't until writing for the pickups that it was decided to hold the climax of the film there. Jackson continued to shoot motion-capture material for reference during 2014, mostly to render the crowds required for the battle sequences.
Editor Jabez Olssen would come on-set to select takes for the edit. He had prepared rough cuts of the films, which Jackson would review between blocks of shooting. They already had a rough cut of An Unexpected Journey in the two-film form by the end of principle photography but were "already cutting around it." Sequences were moved around: the High Fells sequence was still going to be a part of An Unexpected Journey, intercut with the High Fells sequence with the company crossing the Misty Mountains: the storm clouds Gandalf sees would have the same one that hindered the company at the High Pass. The post-production process was "intense" but ultimately the film came-out within minutes of the length Jackson had anticipated.
Olssen had cut the existing footage into the shape that Jackson had required for the second and third films. The process for the second film was more relaxed untill the last reel which required a lot of complex VFX to be completed down to the last couple of days. Jackson even found time to cut parts of the third movie at the same time. They had removed an early confrontation between Thranduil and the company of Dwarves, as well as more Laketown footage to streamline the film. Warners "pushed back" against some of the more grotesque pieces of humour, which Jackson agreed to cut, but kept in mind for the extended edition.
Howard Shore returned to score the films. He started developing themes early "without any pictures" and composed the music for the film's teaser trailer, setting Plan 9's and David Longe's diegetic piece "Far Over the Misty Mountains Cold" to music. This became very succesful, and Jackson had Shore use that as a theme for the company, largely replacing another theme that Shore had wrote for the company. Shore had had a chance to review the film from the two-film rough cut, and had already developed themes for the events and character that would eventually not be introduced until The Desolation of Smaug.
For the second and third movie, it was decided that Shore would work with James Siezmore and Conrad Pope so that the score could be recorded in New Zealand. Shore would sketch the music, Seizmore would create synth mockups and from these Pope would orchestrate and then conduct the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra. Shore was kept in contact throughout, and even had several pieces re-recorded after Smaug's theme was orchestrated with high trumpets making "Smaug sound like a James Bond villain."
The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey grossed over $1.17 billion dollars at the box office and set a December record of $85,345,900.
The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug grossed over $960 million dollars at the box office and it is estimated that the film made a profit of $134.1 million.
The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies grossed over $955 million dollars at the box office. It earned $11.2 million from Tuesday late-night shows, which was the second highest total of 2014.
The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey is the first film of The Hobbit film trilogy, lasting 3 hours and 2 minutes. It was directed by Peter Jackson, who previously had directed The Lord of the Rings film trilogy. It was a major box office success, grossing over $1.017 billion worldwide. The film is the fourth Middle-earth film adaptation to be released, and the first chronologically.
Martin Freeman portrays a young Bilbo Baggins and Ian Holm reprises his role as an older Bilbo Baggins. Ian McKellen and Andy Serkis reprise their roles as Gandalf and Gollum, respectively, as do Hugo Weaving and Cate Blanchett, as Elrond and Galadriel.
The character of Radagast the Brown appears in the movie and is portrayed by Sylvester McCoy, who had been known mostly for his portrayal as the seventh incarnation of The Doctor on Doctor Who.
A reluctant Hobbit, Bilbo Baggins, sets out to the Lonely Mountain with a spirited group of Dwarves to reclaim their mountain home, and the gold within it from the dragon Smaug.
Gandalf: Agreed."
Characters
Species and creatures
Locations
Factions, groups and titles
Events
Objects and artifacts
Miscellanea
Sir Ian McKellen as Gandalf the Grey, in a photo from the set of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey (2012)
The extended edition of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey was released on October 22, 2013 for digital downloads and November 5 2013 for hard copies. It includes these scenes:
Bilbo in Rivendell with the Dwarves
The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is the second film of The Hobbit film trilogy. It was released on December 13, 2013, and grossed over $958 million worldwide. The film is the fifth Middle-earth film adaptation to be released, and the second chronologically.
In addition to the previous cast from The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, Lee Pace, Orlando Bloom, Evangeline Lilly, Luke Evans and Mikael Persbrandt join the cast.
Gandalf and Thorin meet in Bree
On a rainy evening, in Bree, Thorin Oakenshield discreetly arrives at the Prancing Pony. He meets with Gandalf the Grey, who warns Thorin that someone is trying to assassinate him. Gandalf advises Thorin that getting the Arkenstone gem would persuade the Dwarves to follow him. It is at the Lonely Mountain which the great dragon Smaug conquered from the Dwarves. He must secretly go there without waking the dragon therefore a stealthy burglar is needed to steal his jewel back.
Thorin and Company with Beorn
Twelve months later, Thorin and Company are being pursued by Azog and his Orc party down the Carrock following the events of the previous film. Bilbo, who is on a ridge scouting out the surrounding area, spots a massive bear stalking them nearby, and returns to inform the group of the bear's presence. Gandalf expresses familiarity with the beast, and reveals he knows of a dwelling nearby where they can seek shelter.
The bear suddenly picks up their scent and gives chase, forcing the company to make a desperate run for the house. Upon their arrival, they are attacked by the bear but manage to repel it by barring the door to the house. Gandalf reveals that it is the home Beorn, a skin-changer who is in fact the bear they have been fleeing from; as a bear, Beorn is violent and unpredictable in nature, but as a man he is more prone to reason, and that he may be able to aid them in their journey.
That night, Azog and his war band watch Beorn's house from a distance, though Azog is unwilling to attack the settlement as Beorn is guarding the house in his bear form. Suddenly, Bolg, Azog's son, appears and informs Azog that he has been summoned to Dol Guldur by the Necromancer. Azog arrives at Don Goldur, where the Necromancer instructs him to abandon his pursuit of the Dwarven company to lead the Necromancer's armies. Azog reluctantly obeys, instructing Bolg to take over the hunt for the Dwarves in his stead.
The next day, Beorn, having transformed back into his human form, discusses the Dwarf's quest with the company, expressing doubt that they will reach the forest of Mirkwood alive due to the increasing numbers of Orcs roaming the lands of late. He expresses his disdain for Dwarves, but admits that he harbors a far greater hatred of Orcs, having had his kind all but wiped out by Azog and the Orcs of Gundabad for sport. He agrees to loan his horses to the company so that they can safely reach Mirkwood, and transforms back into a bear in order to hinder the pursuing Orcs led by Bolg.
Upon arriving at the forest's edge, Gandalf discovers Black Speech graffiti imprinted on an old statue, coinciding with a telepathic message from Galadriel imploring him to investigate the High Fells of Rhudaur. Without giving any reason for his sudden departure, Gandalf advises the company to follow the Forest Path though Mirkwood, and to wait for him before entering the Lonely Mountain. The Dwarves make their way into the labyrinthian forest, traveling for days without seeing sunlight or any sign of reaching the other side of the forest, and paranoia begins to set in amongst the group. The Dwarves eventually reach a chasm where the path runs off, and begin to succumb to hysteria upon realizing they have lost their way. Bilbo climbs a tree to try and get their bearings, and upon reaching the forest canopy he finds they have nearly reached the other side forest and sees Long Lake in the distance. He excitedly calls down his discovery to his companions, but mysteriously receives no reply. Suddenly, Bilbo notices the trees moving off in the distance, and begins climbing down. Branches swish as something is moving nearby. While climbing down, he trips on a web and falls into an even larger web. A giant Spider binds him in a web.
The Great Spiders of Mirkwood
When the venom wears off, Bilbo sees that the Great Spiders bound the Dwarves. A spider lifts Bilbo who uses his small sword to cut some web and stab the spider. The spider falls to the ground. Bilbo quickly cuts himself free and hides behind a tree, there he dons the Ring. Now he understands the great spiders, who are excitedly planning to devour the Dwarves. Bilbo throws a rock. While the spiders check the sound, Bilbo cuts some Dwarves free. One spider stayed. While invisible, Bilbo silently sneaks up on it and slashes it until it dies when crying "it stings". Bilbo names his small sword Sting. Then he finally cuts the rest free. The spiders return and battle the Dwarves. Bilbo drops the Ring. He sees a spider find it. He gets it back when he kills this crab-like spider.
Meanwhile, the Dwarves continue to battle the giant spiders, and are in danger of being overwhelmed until the sudden appearance of two wood Elves, Legolas and Tauriel, who dispatch the remaining spiders. Suddenly, an entire squad of Elven rangers appears, easily outnumbering the Dwarven company, and Legolas orders them to search the Dwarves. Upon discovering that Thorin is in possession of an Elvish blade, Legolas orders them to be taken as prisoners, refusing to believe that he came into possession of the sword voluntarily.
Prisoners of Thranduil
The Elvish rangers bring the Dwarves to the Elvenking's Halls, unaware that Bilbo is following them under the protective cloak of the Ring, managing to just barely slip inside of the front gates undetected. While the others are placed in cells, Thorin is brought before Legolas' father, King Thranduil, who reveals that he knows why Thorin seeks to return to the Lonely Mountain, offering to help Thorn if he shares some of Lonely Mountain's wealth with him. Thorin appears to consider the offer for a moment before angrily refusing, reminding Thranduil that the Elves did not come to the Dwarves' aid during the sacking of the Lonely Mountain. Incensed, Thranduil has Thorin thrown into the dungeons with the others until he feels more agreeable to his offer. Meanwhile, Tauriel approaches Kíli's cell, where he is examining a talisman, and they engage in conversation, and although they hail from different worlds, they both clearly share a mutual curiosity of one another. Balin is angered that Thorin so callously dismissed their one chance at bargaining with the Elves, but Thorin reveals that he has been aware that Bilbo has was tailing them in secret, and Bilbo suddenly appears, having stolen a key to the cells from the wine cellars.
Thorin and Company during their escape from the Elves
Upon freeing them, Bilbo helps the Dwarves to escape by using empty wine barrels, which are sent floating down the river. Along the way, they are ambushed by Bolg and his Orc party, while the Elves pursue the Dwarves to halt their escape. In the ensuing chaos, Kíli is shot wounded by a poisoned Morgul arrow while attempting to raise the portcullis barring the passage to the river. Legolas and Tauriel are forced to halt their pursuit of the Dwarves in order to end the Orc onslaught, allowing the Dwarves and Bilbo to escape. One Orc captive is imprisoned and questioned by Thranduil. When the Orc reveals to Thranduil that "The One" has returned, he quickly decapitates the Orc and orders the kingdom to be sealed off to protect it from the impending evil. However, Tauriel leaves to save Kíli, who she learns has been poisoned by the Orc's arrow, and Legolas reluctantly pursues her once he learns she has left.
Subsequently, the Company reaches the shores of Long Lake where they are ambushed by the Bard, who keeps them at bay after displaying considerable skill with a bow and arrow. The situation is defused when Balin correctly guesses that Bard is a bargeman from Lake-town, also known as Esgaroth, where the descendants of Dale made their home, and where the Master of Lake-town rules with an iron fist. The Master is a greedy and corrupt man who cares little for the welfare of his people and is especially suspicious of Bard, whom he believes is the leader behind a growing resistance to his rule. Bard manages to sneak the company into Lake-town by smuggling them in fishing barrels, although he is nearly caught by Alfrid, the Master's second-in-command, who is suspicious of Bard as he is not licensed to bring in shipments of fish from Mirkwood. After convincing Alfrid to not dump the barrels of fish as morale is low in Lake-town due to dwindling food supplies, Bard sneaks the Dwarves into his home.
The group attempt to steal weapons before being captured and in the process learn that Bard is a descendant of Dale's ruler, Girion, who died attempting to kill Smaug with Black Arrows during the fall of Dale. The Dwarves are brought before the Master and the rest of the town, where Thorin reveals his identity and his company's quest, and convinces the townsfolk and the Master that they will share the riches of the recaptured mountain if they are provided weapons and boats and allowed safe passage to the mountain. The Master readily agrees, and the adventurers receive a grand send-off. However, Thorin orders he injured Kíli to remain behind, causing Fíli to insist on staying with him, and Óin, Fíli, and Bofur elect to remain to tend him in Bard's house.
Meanwhile, Gandalf finally reaches the High Fells, revealed to be a chamber built precariously into the side the a mountain and barred by an iron gate, which has been ripped open violently. As Gandalf steps inside, he slips and begins sliding down a slanted chute leading to a bottomless chasm, nearly falling to his death but managing to land on a narrow staircase built into the wall at the base of the chute just in time.
Gandalf investigates the High Fells
It is immediately clear that the place was neither meant to be found nor left once entered, but Gandalf continues his descent down into the darkness nonetheless. He reaches a chamber built into the wall whose iron gate has also been crudely smashed, where it is revealed to hold a tomb whose massive stone lid has been broken in two from the inside and now lies empty.
Gandalf is startled by the sudden appearance of Radagast, who questions why they have chosen to meet there. Gandalf reveals that the chamber was designed to hold a being whose name has long been forgotten, and would be known only as a "servant of evil." Gandalf then shines his staff down the chasm to reveal the presence of eight similar chambers, all similarly broken out of by their captors, indicating that the chamber is the prison of the Nazgûl, Sauron's most terrible servants.  Outside of the High Fells, Gandalf and Radagast discuss the Nazgûl's reawakening, and Gandalf asserts that they have been summoned to Dol Guldur by the Necromancer. When Radagast asserts that no human sorcerer could possess such powerful dark magic, Gandalf relays his growing suspicion that the Necromancer is actually Sauron in disguise, still too weak to assume his true form, as the Nazgûl answer only to their one true master. Gandalf then prepares to return to the Dwarven company, but Radagast insists that they  must investigate Dol Guldur at once. Gandalf counters that the Dwarves are in great danger without him, but Radagast reminds him that if Sauron has indeed returned, the entire world is in danger.
Reluctantly convinced by Radagast's words, the two return to the entrance to Dol Guldur, where Gandalf orders Radagast to warn Galadriel of their discovery. Gandalf draws his sword and enters Dol Guldur alone, chanting incantations to undo the enchantment creating the illusion that the fortress is abandoned. Suddenly, the enchantment dissipates and Gandalf is caught off guard by Azog, who reveals that Dol Guldur is in fact a secret staging ground for a massive Orc army. Gandalf keeps the Orcs at bay with his staff and demands to know where their master is, to which Azog replies that "he is everywhere." Gandalf, gravely outnumbered, attempts to escape by casting a spell of blinding light to disorient Azog and brings down a huge section of the fortress wall to prevent the Orcs from following him.
However, as he reaches the entrance the Necromancer appears as a massive incorporeal being of dark energy. The two engage in a battle of light and dark as the Necromancer launches a barrage of shadow energy at Gandalf, who repels it with a force field. After an intense standoff, Gandalf is eventually overwhelmed by the Necromancer, who appears wreathed in flames, disintegrating Gandalf's staff and telepathically pinning him to a wall. Gandalf's worst suspicions are confirmed as the Necromancer reveals himself to indeed be Sauron, who imprisons him in a cage and forces him to watch in horror as the Orc army marches towards the Lonely Mountain.
Thorin and Company eventually reach Dale, which Balin reveals has stood in ruins for two hundred years since Smaug's arrival, and that the blasted lands around the Lonely Mountain have become remained uninhabited and become known as the "Desolation of Smaug. The group finally reach the great gates of Lonely Mountain, and Bilbo manages to locate a secret stairway built into one of the massive Dwarven statues guarding the mountain's entrance. Once at supposed location of the secret doorway, the Dwarves desperately search for the hidden keyhole as the sun begins to set, but are unable to find it before the sun's rays disappear from sight. Utterly disheartened, the Dwarves begin to make their way home, but Bilbo stays behind, refusing to give up so easily, and notices a Thrush knocking at the wall. Suddenly, the moon appears and illuminates the secret door, and Bilbo realizes that it was in fact the last moon of autumn that the map spoke of. He calls to the group, who return and successfully open the secret door into the mountain. Once inside, Balin reveals the true purpose for bringing Bilbo along: He is to sneak into the Lonely Mountain's treasure chamber and steal the Arkenstone without being detected by Smaug.
Bilbo enters the abandoned Dwarven kingdom and reaches the famed treasure hoard, a vast ocean of gold and jewels. He begins vainly searching for the Arkenstone, unwittingly causing a landslide that unveils Smaug, who is sleeping underneath the mountains treasure. Bilbo is dismayed to find that Smaug is enormous, far larger than he had anticipated, and is forced to put on the Ring to remain hidden when Smaug stirs from his sleep when he realizes someone is in the chamber with him. Smaug emerges from the sea of treasure and begins searching for Bilbo, beckoning him to come out of hiding as he can sense and smell his presence. When Smaug gets too close, Bilbo is overcome with fear and attempts to run, alerting Smaug, who gives chase after him through the chamber.
Smaug reveals himself in full to Bilbo
Bilbo evades the dragon and hides behind a massive pillar, still under the cloak of the Ring. Smaug continues his search, claiming that he is aware of the Ring in Bilbo's possession, claiming that he senses that Bilbo has something "made of gold, but far more precious," which in turn forces the hobbit to remove the ring in front of him. He is amused by Bilbo's knowledge of who he is, and begins conversing with the Hobbit in order to deduce his origins. Bilbo lies and says he traveled alone to witness Smaug for himself, but Smaug reveals he knows that Bilbo has come there with Dwarves seeking to reclaim the mountain. Smaug also reveals his knowledge of the growing threat from Sauron, stating that the quest to reclaim the Lonely Mountain is ultimately futile as Sauron is preparing to openly declare himself once more. Smaug then discerns the Hobbit's true intentions to steal the Arkenstone from him, and claims that he is almost tempted to let Bilbo take it in order to watch it consume Thorin as it did Thrór. At this point Smaug tires of their banter and immediately tries to eat Bilbo, but Bilbo uses the Ring to evade him, causing Smaug to fly into a rage and unleash a torrent of flames around the treasure chamber in an attempt to roast the hobbit alive before he can escape.
In Lake-town, Bard hears the rumbling caused by Smaug's awakening and attempts to affix the last Black Arrow to the town's wind lance, but is arrested. Óin, Fíli, Bofur, and Bard's daughters are attacked by Bolg's hunting party, who has been pursuing them since their narrow escape in Mirkwood, before Legolas and Tauriel arrive and drive them off, with the latter remaining behind to tend to Kíli. As Tauriel attempts to heal Kíli's wound, Legolas pursues the remaining Orcs, engaging in a vicious duel with Bolg that ends in a stalemate and Bolg narrowly escaping on his warg to warn Azog that the Dwarves have entered the Lonely Mountain. Tauriel successfully cleanses Kíli's body of the Morgul poison, and in a dreamlike state, Kíli admits his love for Tauriel.
Outside of the Lonely Mountain, Balin expresses his concern over Thorin's obsession with reclaiming the Lonely Mountain's treasure at the expense of Bilbo's life, and the other Dwarves convince Thorin that they must help Bilbo. Thorin enters the Lonely Mountain alone and is immediately overwhelmed by the sight of the treasure hoard, gripped by the sickness of greed that lies over it. Bilbo appears, warning Thorin that they have to leave, but Thorin halts him with his sword, demanding to know if Bilbo located the Arkenstone. Bilbo is shocked and refuses to give Thorin a straight answer, but their standoff is interrupted by the appearance of Smaug at the other end of the chamber.
Suddenly, the rest of the Dwarves rush in with swords drawn, enraging Smaug further, who charges after them and attempts to burn them to death with his fire breath. They manage to elude him, and he begins silently stalking the abandoned halls in search of them. They sneak towards a service passage out of the Lonely Mountain only to find it blocked off and littered with mummified corpses, and realize he is blocking their only other route out of the mountain. Refusing to die like their kin, the Dwarves hatch a desperate plan to lead Smaug to the Lonely Mountain forges in hopes that they can trick him into rekindling the smelting vats with his fire breath.
They return to the main hall and are immediately spotted by Smaug, initiating a perilous game of cat an mouse through the halls of the mountain, with the Dwarves doing everything in their power to encumber the pursuing dragon as they race towards the entrance to the Lonely Mountain. They reach the forges and Thorin goads Smaug into unleashing his flames at them, tricking him into relighting the great forges. They then evade the dragon as he attempts to kill them and are eventually split up in the chaos, with Thorin commanding them all to make a run for the Gallery of Kings. Smaug spots Bilbo and chases after him, and he is quickly overrun by the dragon once they reach the Gallery of Kings. Smashing through the Gallery's wall, Smaug furiously roars that he finally understands that Bilbo and the Dwarves were aided by the men of Lake-town, and leaves to destroy the town. Bilbo cries out in protest, claiming the people of Lake-town are innocent. Smaug stops in his tracks, and cruelly expresses his pleasure in Bilbo's compassion, proclaiming that he can watch them all die.
As Smaug turns to leave again, Thorin appears atop a giant stone cast at the other end of the hall and taunts him. As the dragon reaches Thorin, the dwarf proclaims that they will have their revenge and yells out to the other dwarfs, who are revealed to be holding enormous chains attached to the stone cast upon which Thorin is standing. The Dwarves pull the chains, causing the stone cast to fall apart and unveiling an enormous, freshly casted golden statue of a Dwarf king. Smaug gazes in awe of the statue, which suddenly explodes in a flood of molten gold and buries the engulfs the dragon.
Smaug targets Lake-town upon escaping Thorin and Company
However, Smaug survives the scalding gold and erupts from the molten pool, roaring that he will show the Dwarves what revenge really is. He smashes through the walls of the mountain, shakes off his gold coating, and takes flight. Smaug flies off towards Lake-town, and the film ends with him uttering "I am Fire, I am.....Death!" as he soars towards the unsuspecting town, leaving Bilbo and the others in horror at what they have unleashed.
Characters
Species and creatures
Locations
Factions, groups and titles
Events
Objects and artifacts
Miscellanea
Tauriel and Legolas from Entertainment Weekly
Bard and his family
The extended edition of The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug has 25 minutes of extended footage, and also includes some deleted material:
The burial of the Witch-king
"Hey Braga, your wife would look lovely in this."
The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies is a 2014 epic fantasy adventure film, and the third and final installment of The Hobbit film trilogy, with a duration of 2 hours and 44 minutes, the shortest of the trilogy. Like its predecessors The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey and The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, the film was produced and directed by Peter Jackson, who had directed The Lord of the Rings trilogy. The film is the sixth and final Middle-earth film adaptation to be released and the third chronologically.
Filming took place primarily in New Zealand. It stars Martin Freeman as Bilbo Baggins, Ian McKellen as Gandalf the Grey, Benedict Cumberbatch as Smaug and the Necromancer, and Richard Armitage as Thorin Oakenshield.
On February 28, 2013, a new release date in December was confirmed for the film, mirroring the release dates of Peter Jackson's previous Middle-earth films, The Lord of the Rings and the first two films of The Hobbit. The film was released on December 12, 2014 in the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe (e.g. Austria), and on December 17 in the United States. The film was a major box office success, grossing over $956 million worldwide.
The film's title refers to the climactic battle of the same name between the Men of Lake-town, the Elves of Mirkwood, the Dwarves of the Iron Hills, the Orc armies from both Dol Guldur and Gundabad, and the Great Eagles.
Smaug destroys Lake-town
Bilbo and the Dwarves watch from the Lonely Mountain as the dragon Smaug destroys Lake-town. Bard breaks out of prison and kills Smaug with the black arrow, whose falling body crushes the fleeing Master of Lake-town. Bard is chosen as the new leader, and the people of Lake-town seek refuge in the ruins of Dale. Tauriel travels to investigate Mount Gundabad with Legolas. Upon arriving at Erebor, Fíli and Kíli, Bofur and Óin are informed by Bilbo that Thorin has been inflicted with Smaug's "dragon sickness" as he searches for the Arkenstone. It is revealed that Bilbo actually stole the Arkenstone from Smaug but knows it should be hidden from Thorin, who orders the entrance of the Lonely Mountain be sealed off.
The Nazgul surround Gandalf and Galadriel
Meanwhile, having become a prisoner in Dol Guldur, Gandalf is saved by Galadriel. Galadriel carries an unconscious Gandalf into a more open area while being taunted by the Necromancer. Elrond, Saruman, and Radagast arrive and rescue the Grey Wizard. Gandalf is saved by Galadriel and given to Radagast while Elrond and Saruman hold off the Nazgûl. Sauron appears to them with the Nine at his side. Using the power of Nenya, Galadriel takes on the Dark Lord and the Ringwraiths, banishing them out of the fortress. Galadriel falls back, fainting as Elrond supports her, realizing she has used her full strength in order to cast him away. Though Elrond believes they must warn the Free People of the enemy's return and set a watch upon the boundaries of Mordor, Saruman tells him to take Galadriel to safety while he deals with Sauron.
Radagast provides Gandalf a horse and his staff before riding to Dale. At that time, Azog approaches the Lonely Mountain with his vast Orc army while learning from Bolg that an Elf army under Thranduil is also approaching. Azog tells Bolg to head to Gundabad and ready their other army.
Following Bolg to the fortress of Gundabad, Legolas and Tauriel see Bolg with another army of Orcs and hundreds of war-bred bats. They decide to return to Lake-town to warn the others.
The fortress of Gundabad
When Thranduil's army arrives in Dale, he forges an allegiance with Bard to claim a necklace of white gems from Thorin's treasure. Though Bard attempts to reason with Thorin to avoid further bloodshed, the stubborn dwarf refuses to listen, to his company's dismay. As they prepare for the battle, Thorin gives Bilbo a mithril vest. Thorin begins to talk like Smaug, telling Bilbo that he will never share the treasure with Bard and Thranduil, not wanting to part with a single coin. After Gandalf arrives at Dale, Bilbo sneaks out of the Lonely Mountain to hand the Arkenstone over to Thranduil and Bard. Inside the camp, Thranduil reminds Gandalf that he is the one who started all this and he will finish it.
The next day, the Elf army and the armed people of Lake-town gather at the entrance of the Lonely Mountain. Thranduil and Bard ride at the front, where Thorin threatens to kill them if they get any closer. Bard unveils the Arkenstone at the gates of Erebor. Thorin refuses to believe them, thinking it was a ruse, until Bilbo reveals he gave it to them. Bilbo admits he wanted to give it to Thorin, but nonetheless, chides the dwarf for letting Greed corrupt him and cloud his judgement. Enraged, Thorin orders the Dwarves to throw Bilbo from the Rampart, which they refuse. Thorin instead decides to kill Bilbo himself. Luckily, Gandalf approaches at the front with Bard and Thranduil, telling Thorin to return the hobbit to him. The other Dwarves hold off their leader so Bilbo can escape down the wall to Gandalf. Then, a Dwarf army under Dáin Ironfoot arrives and is about to attack the Elves on Thorin's call, but Azog sends one branch of his army to attack Dáin's force. While Thranduil assists Dáin's army, Azog sends the rest of his forces to attack Dale with Bilbo, Gandalf, Bard, and the other Elves coming to its defense. Gandalf, Thranduil, Bard, and Dáin do the best they can to hold off the Orc armies as more and more come, killing more Dwarves, men, and Elves. Meanwhile, Alfrid takes a pile of treasure and escapes the battlefield, with Bard permitting him to do so.
The Great Eagles arrive at the battle
Inside the Lonely Mountain, Thorin eventually overcomes his madness after a lengthy hallucination. Thorin and company burst out of the Mountain and join the battle, much to Dáin's delight. While the others aid what remains of Dáin's forces, Thorin rides towards Ravenhill with Dwalin, Fíli and Kíli to kill Azog. At the same time, after being banished by Thranduil despite her and Legolas warning him of Bolg's army, Legolas and Tauriel set off for Ravenhill with Bilbo following to warn the Dwarves of the second Orc army. Thorin tells Fíli and Kíli to scout the towers as Bilbo came and warned them. But he is too late. Azog captures Fíli and stabs him in the back before throwing him off a tower. While Thorin fights Azog to avenge Fíli, Kíli dies protecting Tauriel from Bolg. After Legolas kills Bolg, the Great Eagles arrive, led by Radagast and Beorn, to assist in the battle, quickly decimating the Orc army.
Azog defeated by Thorin Oakenshield
When Bilbo regains consciousness, he finds that Thorin has killed Azog but was mortally wounded in the process and dies soon after making his peace with the hobbit. Sometime after, a disillusioned Legolas leaves his father to meet with one of the Dúnedain, a man who goes by the name of Strider. Thranduil, after seeing Tauriel kiss Kíli's dead body, finally accepts Tauriel's love for Kíli and agrees with her plan to bury the Dwarf. Bilbo bids farewell to the surviving members of Thorin's company, telling them they are welcome to join him for tea whenever they are in the Shire, to which he returns with Gandalf. As they part on the outskirts of the Shire, Gandalf reveals that he knows of the Ring that Bilbo found in the Goblin tunnels (though unaware that it was the One Ring) before they part ways on good terms. Bilbo's story ends when he returns to Bag End and finds the Sackville-Bagginses are auctioning off his belongings and are about to sell his house. The scene transitions to Bilbo on the day of his 111th birthday when he receives a visit from Gandalf, ending where the The Fellowship of the Ring begins.
Characters
Species and creatures
Locations
Factions, groups and titles
Events
The extended edition of The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies has an additional 20 minutes of footage:
Thorin's funeral
The film's world premiere took place on December 1st, 2014 in Leicester Square, London. Many of the cast members were there, and the event reportedly went very well. The film was well received by those in attendance, and many critics praised the film's visuals, acting, and action sequences, while some also expressed criticism on the short length of the film.
Financially, the film was a success, earning over 255 million in North America and another 700 million overseas for a total of over 956 million US dollars.
Critically, the film was less well-received, with many critics complaining about the film's perceived shortcomings in terms of plot and pacing. The film's current Rotten Tomatoes score is 59%, based on 265 reviews.
Original Soundtrack Cover
Disc 1
Disc 2
Special Edition Cover
Disc 1
Disc 2
Patrick McKay,Belén Atienza,Gene Kelly,Lindsey Weber,Bruce Richmond
Patrick McKay,Gennifer Hutchison,Bryan Cogman,et al.
The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (formerly nicknamed  LOTRonPrime) is a series produced by Amazon Studios, alongside New Line Cinema. It is a spin-off of J.R.R. Tolkien's lore of Middle-earth. The first season premiered in September of 2022.
It is set in an alternate Second Age, long before the time-frame of The Lord of the Rings. The series is a political, fantasy drama led by Morfydd Clark as a younger Galadriel with Robert Aramayo as Elrond, retelling the forging of the Great Rings, Downfall of Númenor, and founding of Mordor. The initial two episodes, "A Shadow of the Past" and "Adrift", were released on September 2, 2022 on Prime Video.
The show's first season concluded filming in New Zealand in July 2021, with J.A. Bayona helming the initial two episodes out of a first season of eight episodes, to be followed by four more seasons and a possible additional, connected show. The first season's budget is around $650 million NZD. Season Two began filming in the United Kingdom on October 03, 2022.
The show is projected to progress at least five seasons and some 50-hours of TV over a period of eight to ten years; and, as of November 2019, the first two seasons have been greenlit. In January 2020, Amazon announced that the first season would consist of eight episodes. The Tolkien Estate reportedly has veto-power "on strategy and on vision" and will maintain the "main shape of the Second Age".
First look image, released by Amazon on August 2, 2021
The plot centers around significant yet non-contemporaneous events of the Second Age, greatly reordered such that the lives of Elendil and Tar-Míriel (originally in the last millennium of the Age) coincide with the making of the Rings of Power and founding of Mordor, which occurred in prior millennia of the Age. As of Season One, it is unconfirmed in which century the series is meant to take place.
The most central story arc of the series is the making of the Rings of Power in Eregion, and the often-connected wiles of Sauron.
The series is meant to explore times millennia before The Fellowship of the Ring. Amazon does not have rights to events of the Third Age, while events from the First Age and previous eras, such as the Years of the Trees and Years of the Valar, are allowed to only "be mentioned at the most if they explain the events of the Second Age", unless they are taken directly from mentions in The Lord of the Rings. The showrunners have said that they "have the rights solely to The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, The Return of the King, the Appendices, and The Hobbit, and that is it. We do not have the rights to The Silmarillion, Unfinished Tales, The History of Middle-earth, or any of those other books.” However, the inclusion of Tirion and other elements suggest that more material may be licensed to them on an ad-hoc basis.
Source material for these periods includes mentions of relevant events occurring in The Lord of the Rings, including in Appendix A (The Númenórean Kings: Númenor) and Appendix B (The Tale of Years: The Second Age), and also material licensed "other related works, in each case written or inspired by J.R.R. Tolkien", which can include "Akallabêth" and "Of the Rings of Power and the Third Age" from The Silmarillion, and "The History of Galadriel and Celeborn" and "The Line of Elros: Kings of Númenor" from Unfinished Tales. Overall, the source material Amazon acquired the rights to is used with great liberty, with numerous adjustments to canonical characters and chronology.
Early on, New Line executives said that The Rings of Power would reprise visuals from Peter Jackson's films, and this was also the impression given to Jackson from his talks with the executives, saying that the showrunners intend to "have a series and a world where it sort of fits with the films", and "in the same world" as his films, agreeing to share his designs. This was reiterated by John Howe, who said "the show runners are determined to remain faithful to the existing trilogies" and that "it's a continuation." Orlando Bloom, having looked into the matter through Amazon producers, seems to have arrived at the same conclusion, as well, saying that "its not a remake" However, "if only for legal reasons", the show cannot replicate specific props from the films, but has a similar design aesthetic. Executive Jennifer Salke pointed out that "we’re also not starting from scratch." Lead actress Morfydd Clark said she struggles with not being an "imposter" of the movie actors, saying "There’s a huge amount of respect for the films.”
J.R.R. Tolkien never sold the rights to adapt his works for television, having rejected some propositions in 1964 and 1968. Several unlicensed adaptations aired on TV in Eastern Europe, beginning with Sagan om Ringen (1972), but the Tolkien Estate had since taken actions against allowing them to air again outside their countries. United Artists, who acquired the film rights in 1969, were given first bidding at the TV rights but, having failed to mount a successful film adaptation other than Ralph Bakshi's The Lord of the Rings, had declined to pursue the TV rights.  The Rankin/Bass TV Specials were made by exploiting a loophole in the US publication of the books, which temporarily made them public domain states-side. In 1993, an adaptation comprising "two or three films, or an epic television series" was developed but could not get the rights. In 1997, ITV Granada wanted to create a miniseries, but by that point a film adaptation of The Lord of the Rings (and The Hobbit as a prequel) was underway with director Peter Jackson.
The success of Jackson's The Lord of the Rings trilogy, followed by The Hobbit trilogy (and a putative "bridge" film pitched by Jackson but never made) reinvigorated interest in the TV rights, although the Tolkien Estate, unsatisfied with the film adaptations up to that point, had declined to relinquish those or any other film rights. Jackson himself, in the audio commentary to the films, jested about a "spinoff TV series."
In July 2017, a lawsuit was settled between Warner Brothers,  the company behind the Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit films, and the Tolkien Estate. With the two sides "on better terms" following the settlement, they began shopping a potential television series based on Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings books to several outlets, including Amazon, Netflix, and HBO.  By September, Amazon had emerged as the frontrunner and entered negotiations for the series in co-operation with Warner Bros. TV. In an uncommon move for programming developments at the studio, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos was personally involved with the negotiations; Bezos had previously given Amazon Studios a mandate to develop a fantasy series of comparable scale to HBO's Game of Thrones, which had made the company the lead contender for the project.
In November 2017, Amazon Studios secured the rights to make a five-season production with the potential for spin-offs. The rights alone cost $250 million; the first two seasons could cost upwards of $500 million. The deal between Warner Brothers and the Tolkien Estate includes the potential for a spin-off series. New Line, the Warner Bros. division who produced the films, was included in the deal due to the potential for the series to use material from the films, with New Line president Carolyn Blackwood and Warner Bros. Pictures then-chairman Toby Emmerich - both of whom were executive producers on The Hobbit, were brought into the talks. The deal stipulated that production on the series begin within two years. Amazon has no current plans to make any "publishing projects."
The deal gave Amazon "access to nearly all of the material in the Middle-earth saga" other than the First Age (except for references that crop-up in The Lord of the Rings) and, reportedly, The Silmarillion, which was the purview of the late Christopher Tolkien. Executive Jennifer Salke described creative discussions with the Tolkien Estate (particularly Simon) as a "partnership" and that they are "really thoughtful and smart." The Estate had met with prospective writers and showrunners, for whom they had approval rights.
Around this time, Christopher Tolkien had resigned from heading the Estate and his son, Simon Tolkien (a supporter of the live-action films) had taken up a more active role in it alongside Priscilla Tolkien (who lent her support to Ralph Bakshi in his day), Baillie Tolkien, Michael Tolkien, as well as their attorney, Steven Andrew Maier.
Fourth map of Middle-earth, released by Amazon on March 6, 2019
Early during development, it was suggested the show would center around a young Aragorn, a premise that had previously been a part of a possible "The Lord of the Rings prequel" developed but never filmed by WingNut Films. However, around April 2018 it was decided to switch to "the story of Eregion" in the Second Age, in spite of concerns by Amazon that it "covered too long a span."
Earlier, on February 13, 2019, Amazon's newly created Twitter account associated with the show posted the quote "I wisely started with a map." taken from Tolkien's Letter 144. Starting on February 15, and ending on March 7, different versions of a map of Middle-earth were released, first without labels, and each successive post including more labels than the previous map, and seemingly dating to a different period in Middle-earth history: mid-Third Age, early Third Age, and late Second Age.
The final map released on March 7 showed a wider view of Middle-earth, including the island of Númenor and the Elvish realm of Eregion. A different section of the Ring-verse appeared with each successive post, until it was completed with the fifth map. Assistance was given by Tolkien scholar Tom Shippey and artist John Howe in the tailoring of their interactive map. Minor errata on the map were fixed after-the-fact, based on feedback from fans.
A broader map, including Númenor, released March 7, 2019
A writers room for the series had begun work in Santa Monica by mid-February 2019. Salke described extensive security measures that were being taken to keep details of this writing secret, including windows being taped closed and a security guard requiring fingerprint clearance from those entering the room. In addition to Payne and McKay, writers on the series include Gennifer Hutchison, Helen Shang, Jason Cahill, Justin Doble, Bryan Cogman, and Stephany Folsom, with Glenise Mullins acting as a consulting writer. The writers room was set to be disbanded once production on the series began, but would be reconvened during the four or five month break in filming that was scheduled following production on the first two episodes. The writers were expected to map out the second season and write the majority of its scripts during this production break.
Salke said in June 2018 that the series could be filmed in New Zealand, where the films were produced, but Amazon was also willing to film in other countries as long as they could "provide those locations in a really authentic way, because we want it to look incredible." Pre-production on the series reportedly began around that time in Auckland, while location scouting for the series also took place in Scotland, with areas visited by the production including the Isle of Skye, Portpatrick, Scourie, Perthshire, and Loch Lomond. Amazon and Creative Scotland held talks about the series' production being based at new studios that were under construction in Leith, Edinburgh. In light of subsequent events and Amazon's contractual stipulation that they should have the liberty to shoot scenes outside of New Zealand, it may be that this was done to purely to put New Zealand in a competitive situation.
In December, Amazon held a "crisis meeting" with David Parker, New Zealand's Minister of Economic Development, after the studio threatened to take the production out of the country due to the lack of available studio space in Auckland. During the meeting, Parker told Amazon they were welcome in New Zealand and the country's government wanted them to make the series there, but he did not propose any special deal for the series because "you don't want these things at any cost; you want them on terms that are good for New Zealand". New Zealand's Major Screen Production Grant, which provides up to a 25 percent refund in tax for international productions, was offered to Amazon for the series. Amazon later received another $100 million boost from New Zealand.
On June 30, the New Zealand Herald reported that the series would be filmed primarily in Auckland and Queenstown, among other locations in New Zealand. Shooting of the series will be based on location rather than in-season chronology. Amazon officially announced that the series would be filmed in New Zealand in September 2019, after completing negotiations with the New Zealand Government and the New Zealand Film Commission, as well as Auckland Tourism, Events and Economic Development (ATEED). The studio said filming was set to begin on the series in "the coming months", with some specific locations still being discussed according to ATEED. Payne and McKay explained that in choosing the series' primary location, they and the production team had needed "somewhere majestic, with pristine coasts, forests, and mountains" that could also meet the production requirements of the series. Amazon maintains the right to shoot some material elsewhere around the world if necessarily, be it as leverage on N.Z. authorities but also to allow for a diversity of locations and for the availability of the cast.
The series reportedly shot in several seaside locations in the vicinity of Auckland, including Piha, Muriwai (in a then-populated Gannet Colony), Anawhata and possibly Three Sisters Beach. Other locations include the forests in Piha, Fjordland (especially Mount Kidd) and Manapouri, as well Rangitikei, Denize Bluffs, Hauraki Gulf and Coromandel Peninsula. More than 1,000 New Zealanders were contracted for the first season, with around 700 more indirectly engaged with the production.
For Season 2, production will move from New Zealand to the United Kingdom, possibly due to COVID restrictions, although plates from New Zealand could still be used and secondary units may keep shooting there.  Pre-production will begin in the "second half of half of 2022 or early 2023" at Bray Studios and Bovingdon Airfield among other locations with "half a billion pounds’ worth of production" costs, with the season projected for "2023/2024" slot. The move was reportedly made in part to accommodate actors' schedules (Morfydd Clark had since filmed The Duchess of Malfi and signed-on Starve Acre, while Sir Lenny Henry was cast in The Witcher spinoff)  and to allow easy access to other European locations.
Amazon's complete cast (as of Season One)
By July 2019, Amazon had embarked on a "multi-year search" for actors. The showrunners and director JA Bayona stressed the "diverse" and "international" aspect of the cast, with several roles calling specifically for "diverse" actors and actresses. Ultimately, the announced cast features actors hailing from the UK, New Zealand, Australia, Sri Lanka and the United States. Between November 2019 and January 2020, various audition tapes, as well as character descriptions, had gradually leaked out.
On July 22 of 2019, it was announced that Australian actress Markella Kavenagh had been cast in the series, with some reports that she would portray a character named "Tyra", or "Kyra". Three other placeholder character names were revealed as well: Beldor, Aric, and Eldien, with Conor Fogarty known to have auditioned for Beldor, Nick Hardcastle for Aric and Chloe Bremner and Seána Kerslake for Eldien. Auditions for other roles emerged later, with Joel Lambert, Chris Browning and Travis Johns auditioning for "Loda"; and Brian A. Wilson auditioned for "Hamsom."
From the tapes, it is apparent that a couple of characters, including "Brac", are Dwarves. Other roles revealed since were that of "King Durin, father of Durin", codenamed "Khain"; Pharazon, codenamed "Welyn"; Tar-Palantir, codenamed "Sarador" and three fellows of Isildur's. Scenes had been reconstructed - in part from the audition tapes - of Galadriel teaming-up with Middle-earth native "Aric" on a voyage to Numenore, stowing away on Elendil's ship to appear before Miriel.
On September 4 of the same year, it was announced that English actor Will Poulter would portray a yet unspecified character, though on December 12, it was reported that Poulter had left the series due to scheduling conflicts. Poulter was reported to have been replaced by English actor Robert Aramayo on January 1, 2020.
On January 14, 2020, Amazon revealed a cast of ten series regulars (arranged alphabetically by surname) via social media. Amazon's co-head of television Vernon Sanders noted that there were still some key roles that had yet to be filled. One of these key roles was confirmed to go to Maxim Baldry in March when his deal for the series was completed, after he had been informally attached to the series in October 2019.
On December 3, 20 additional cast members were revealed. At least a couple of the newly-announced members were informally attached to the series from the same time as the first ten regulars. Namely, Maxim Baldry; as well as Simon Merrels, cast in the otherwise-unknown role of "Tervyn." Lloyd Owen is reportedly attached to the role of "Loda" which was also being cast during the early casting sessions. Of the new cast members, seven are New Zealanders, with the rest of the cast members coming from Australia, Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
On March 14, 2021, actor Tom Budge announced his departure from the show, citing the showrunners wanting to change direction regarding his character. Reportedly "a studio decision", a recast quickly commissioned by Amazon. Budge was cast as Celebrimbor, and replaced by Charles Edwards.
Additionally, Lady Amelie Child-Villiers, a child actress noted for her similarity to Morfydd Clark, was said to have "filmed scenes for Amazon’s Lord of the Rings series" before September 2020, and was officially announced along with Charles Edwards (replacing Tom Budge), Will Fletcher and Beau Cassidy, "rounding out" the cast.
Amazon had been casting extras of various ethnicities and body types. Some actors were cast under the guise of "warlords" for unknown minor parts, as well as a "Mage Attendant." Several casting calls required "short people", naturally for Dwarven roles, described as "background extra & featured extra work (with opportunities to upgrade to larger roles)." An earlier casting call from October 2019 specified sizes of "4''6-4''1" as well as "character faces" - a euphemism used in casting the movies for formidable-looking people - elaborated as "earthy, weathered, dark skin, missing teeth, wonderful noses etc." as well as "beautiful, fair, fine-boned faces".
A casting call referencing extras who "must be willing to wear sheer clothing," although it may be that this particular casting requirement was later written out of the series. Another casting call for extras "comfortable with partial or full nudity", that was thought to have been for The Lord of the Rings, was in reference to the concurrent Auckland Netflix production, Cowboy Bebop and appeared in the show's second episode. It is possible the show will at some point feature nudity that is not sexualized. Regardless, the show is currently listed in most territories under Amazon's viewership rating "16+" and the equivalent TVPGA rating of "PG-14", with individual episodes possibly getting rated lower (TV-PG/12+) or higher (TV-MA/18+). Similar to Wheel of Time's rating, it would allow the showrunners great latitude with battlefield violence but also with adult themes (e.g. Pharazôn's incestuous marriage to Miriel) and other potential mature content. Nonetheless, Patrick McKay indicated the show will not display the degree of mature content featured in Game of Thrones, saying that it should be appropriate for children as young as 11.
For personnel involved, see also the Cast & Crew category.
Amazon hired writers J.D. Payne and Patrick McKay to develop the series in July. Bryan Cogman joined the series as a consultant in May 2019 after signing an overall deal with Amazon. Cogman previously served as a writer on Game of Thrones, and was set to work alongside Payne and McKay in developing the new series.
In July, J.A. Bayona was hired to direct the first two episodes of the series and serve as executive producer alongside his producing partner Belén Atienza. Bayona later said that he was attracted by the quality of the scripts and that there remains a "kinship to the films done by Peter Jackson."
Later that month, Game of Thrones creators David Benioff and D. B. Weiss were in discussions with several outlets regarding signing an overall deal, including with Amazon who were interested in having the pair consult on The Lord of the Rings; they ultimately signed a deal with Netflix instead.
At the end of July, Amazon announced that Payne and McKay would serve as showrunners and executive producers for the series, and revealed the full creative team that was working on the project: executive producers Bayona, Atienza, Bruce Richmond, Gene Kelly, Lindsey Weber, and Sharon Tal Yguado; co-producer Ron Ames; costume designer Kate Hawley; production designer Rick Heinrichs; visual effects supervisor Jason Smith; illustrator/concept artist John Howe, who was one of the chief conceptual designers on the films, and Tolkien expert (and Oxford Emeritus) Thomas Shippey as consultant.
By April 15, 2020, it was confirmed that Tom Shippey left the project. Its unclear whether he was only required in the development phase, of whether his departure had other causes. On December 7 of the same year, it was confirmed Bryan Cogman had completed his obligation to the series after contributing to the first season's scripts. Production designer Rick Heinrichs was replaced by Ramsey Avery. Kelly also left the series, with Callum Greene joining as a new executive producer. Greene previously served as producer on The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug (2013).
Following Bayona's departure from New Zealand, Wayne Che Yip began directing episodes 3 through to 6 of the season, as well as serving as executive producer. On May 13, Charlotte Brändström was announced as the third and final director of the show's first season after widespread speculation that this was the case.
At the time of the signing of the deal, Amazon had not contacted Peter Jackson or any of his collaborators, but as early as March 2018 they and Jackson (who had previously spoke of having developed a sense of "mental ownership" over "the Middle-earth that's been put on the screen") had established contact via his attorney Peter Nelson, with a view for him to act in an advisory position during development and production, possibly as executive producer. Although he initially said he was not involved,  Jackson was impressed with Amazon's "very good intentions" and understood that Amazon will "try to have a series and a world where it sort of fits with the films; they want to keep the designs" of his films. He wanted to get involved in the scripts, and word among potential writers for the show was that he was about "to bring the whole project under his dominion." However, he was too busy with Mortal Engines and They Shall Not Grow Old, and hesitated to get involved in a long series, particularly where a third party like the Tolkien Estate had veto right. Amazon and Jackson were still "in the middle of" discussions by mid-June, with Jackson ultimately opting to "help put the creative team together" and possibly advise with regards to the designs and the finished scripts, having "not seen anything" at that point.
Jackson and co-writer/co-producer Philippa Boyens had expressed excitement, agreeing that "fresh eyes on that story is such a good thing." Indeed, Boyens having already said in 2014 that further stories in the franchise "will be for another generation of filmmakers", had said (along with Fran Walsh) that Amazon should "go with all our goodwill", and eventually took a consultant position on New Line's concurrent The War of the Rohirrim, which Jackson and Walsh had also given their blessing to, while they themselves work on the Ultra High-Definition Collector's Edition of their existing films in the franchise, which "completes" their direct involvement with the franchise. Joining Walsh, Boyens and Jackson in wishing success for Amazon's project were cast-members Sir Ian McKellen, Andy Serkis, Viggo Mortensen, Orlando Bloom, Sean Astin, Elijah Wood, John Rhys-Davies and executives Mark Ordesky and Robert Shaye. Actress Morfydd Clark said that affirmation was significant to the cast and crew, and added that "[the challenge of taking part in an original film] is exactly the same [in] stepping into a world that’s already been created and already been masterfully done.” In a Twitter event,  Vanity Fair writers - having seen the first three episodes - said it "feels of-a-piece" with the films, the showrunners being determined to make a show that won't "clash" with the films.
In an interview, Peter Jackson had said that Amazon promised he would receive scripts to look at, and never talked to him again. 
Filming had begun by March 2020 and was expected to continue through May, with a four- or five-month production break then planned. During the break, the footage for the first two episodes would be reviewed and writing on the second season would begin. Production on the series was scheduled to resume in mid-October and continue until late June 2021. Amazon carried out shooting digitally with large-format Arri cameras, predominantly Arri Alexa LF Mini, and finished in 4K and cropped to a cinematic aspect ratio of 2.40:1.
Production was halted prematurely due to the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, with filming resuming in late September. While much of the opening two-episodes was reportedly already shot, reshoots were held under Bayona until December, and resuming shortly thereafter for the rest of the first season. Location shooting took place around Auckland in February 2020, and resumed on October, and in February 2021 in Manapouri. Contrary to reports that the show had halted filming due to new COVID cases in Auckland, it had in fact continued shooting outside the Auckland area.
Shooting took place in Kumeu and Auckland film studios, including a snowy mountainside set for the Forodwaith sequence, a forest-set city set standing for the southland city of Tirharad, several wet-sets and, reportedly, Khazad-dûm filling-up the biggest soundstage. Leaked set pictures had since revealed set construction taking place, and several houses on a Númenórean set, including one set opposite the stairway of which a shot had leaked earlier, as well as a piece of Dwarven armor and a mithril-ore decked chamber in Khazad-dûm.
Walker said at the end of June that he was not sure how much longer the cast would be required to stay in New Zealand, saying the timeline for the production was "a bit nebulous" and Amazon would "let us go when they're done with us". In early July, several stunt performers alleged that a senior stunt supervisor for the production had created an "uneasy environment" that contributed to an unsafe workplace, with at least three stunt performers being seriously injured on the set. This included stuntwoman Dayna Grant, who suffered a head injury on set in March and was diagnosed with a brain aneurysm and upper spinal injury; fans crowdfunded NZ$100,000 to help Grant pay for surgery. The production's head of safety, Willy Heatley, said the injury rate was 0.065 percent across the 16,200 days of stunt work on the series since filming began, and this was mostly due to "common stunt-related sprains, bruises and muscle and soft tissue strains". Amazon Studios said safety was a top priority for the company and they were following all of WorkSafe's regulations.
Amazon will premiere the series on September 2, 2022. Filming on Season One had wrapped in 3 August, 2021, after earlier reports that it would wrap in late July, including pickups. It is also said that Amazon is satisfied with the existing footage to the point of having greenlit Season 3, which will begin writing promptly, with pre-production starting in "early 2022."
After pickup shooting, the production spanned intermittently over 20 months (with some of the cast, like Morfydd Clark, staying in N.Z. throughout) and the shoot itself lasting 13 months. Amazon is reportedly spending as high as $650 million NZD for season one alone, although some of this sum will be used for "building the infrastructure of what will sustain the whole series" and may have included some of the $250 million spent on the rights. The first $100 million NZD spent on the production are not subsidized by New Zealand.
Amazon had contacted both WETA Digital (since rebranded WetaFX) and ILM for work on at least some of the VFX required for the show, and at least some post-production work took place in NZ-based facilities, which Amazon had proposed to establish themselves on New Zealand soil. WetaFX employees on the show include Ken McGaugh as VFX supervisor, Paul Story as animation supervisor and Andy Taylor as VFX producer. WETA Workshop is creating "Concept Design, Prosthetic Make-up Effects and Weapons" and several of its employees are also credited as working on the show, and the company is said to be "expected to cash in on the production."
Film composer Howard Shore expressed interest in working on the show. While he was not contacted during production, an agreement was reached during post-production to write the main theme for the series. Bear McCreary serves as the primary composer for the show's soundtrack. It is said Amazon upholds no restrictions on episode length, which average just under 70 minutes.
Amazon is said to be shooting behind-the-scenes material, to be released as featurettes appended to the individual episodes and/or the season finale. During post-production, Amazon submitted six 60-90 second videos about shooting in New Zealand for the country's authorities to use for promoting tourism.
Amazon released a teaser announcing the title of the show in January 19, 2022. The teaser was shot in six days in late 2021, after filming had concluded, by using macro-photography (achieved with the advise of Douglas Trumbull) of metallurgy to show the title being forged, while also possibly alluding to the Downfall of Númenor via the rushing water. The lettering is silver, perhaps alluding to the creation of the Doors of Durin, and the music hints at Howard Shore's Ring theme.
Shortly prior to this, Amazon put the show up on their Prime Video service. A press release appended to the teaser revealed the show will cover all the main events of the Second Age, necessitating a title that will befit all those events.
On February 3, 2022, a total of 23 posters were released via official social media accounts, corresponding with the "22 stars" of the show, reported by Vanity Fair. In order "To fuel fan speculation and discussion", said Amazon, "faces are not shown, and neither character names nor corresponding actors will be revealed," although they had revealed that the hands belong to "cast members Cynthia Addai-Robinson, Robert Aramayo, Owain Arthur, Maxim Baldry, Nazanin Boniadi, Morfydd Clark, Ismael Cruz Córdova, Charles Edwards, Trystan Gravelle, Sir Lenny Henry, Ema Horvath, Markella Kavenagh, Joseph Mawle, Tyroe Muhafidin, Sophia Nomvete, Lloyd Owen, Megan Richards, Dylan Smith, Charlie Vickers, Leon Wadham, Benjamin Walker, Daniel Weyman, and Sara Zwangobani." Many of these were thereafter identified by fans (see "Gallery") based on Amazon's descriptive text, identifying features on hands, and visual motifs on the costumes and props. 
Amazon released a one-minute teaser (see Gallery) during the 2022 Super Bowl, which showcased the city of Armenelos, a clearing in Lindon with Elves in armor before Gil-galad, and footage of Galadriel on her quest to Forodwaith (where a Snow-troll is encountered by Kip Chapman's character) and on her sea voyage with Halbrand. Also featured were Daniel Weyman as "The Stranger", being rescued by Markella Kavenagh's Elanor Brandyfoot from the site of a meteor crash.
A second teaser was released on July 8, with the first full-length trailer appearing on July 14.
In order of announcement
For episodes of The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (2022).
All items (8)
"A Shadow of the Past" is the premiere episode of The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power Season One. It aired on September 2, 2022 on Prime Video.
It is named after the second chapter of J.R.R. Tolkien's The Fellowship of the Ring.
In Valinor, near Tirion, an adolescent Galadriel speaks with her older brother Finrod about destiny and vocation. An older Galadriel then narrates concerning the bliss of the Years of the Trees, their destruction by Morgoth, the Elves' war against him, and the uncertainty of Sauron's endurance past the War of Wrath. Among many glimpses of the First Age is a sequence of the Dagor Bragollach in FA 456, in which Finrod is seen being pressed back by an overwhelming force of Morgoth's Orcs (moments before Barahir would have rescued him). Galadriel tells of Finrod's later resolve to seek for and defeat Sauron, amidst which he died. This mission she chose to take up after him.
In the second millennia of the Second Age, Galadriel leads a troop of Elves including Thondir on a bold quest hunting for any long-fled remnant Orcs, and for evidence of Sauron. Passing through the dangerous wastes of Forodwaith, they find an abandoned, unspecified stronghold, in which they discover evidence of attempts at profane magic and a mysterious sigil that Sauron had left, long beforehand, on Finrod's body. A resident snow-troll appears and assails them, and is killed by Galadriel. Galadriel believes from their findings that Sauron had apparently endured Melkor's defeat, and hides somewhere else regathering strength, and so she resolves to continue the search further north, but Thondir and the other companions interpret the findings otherwise, to indicate instead that Sauron and the Orcs had not endured. They refuse to follow Galadriel thence, and choose to return home to Lindon. Unwillingly, Galadriel departs to Lindon as well, but only in order to briefly stay and request new companions for her hunt.
In the open regions east of the Misty Mountains, hunters of Men (whose affiliations are unknown) wearing large moose antlers pass through a secretive land of Harfoot hobbits, whose central home is a forest. Since foreigners had rarely been spotted by the Harfoots at that part of the year, this arouses suspicions in Sadoc Burrows and others. Playing with friends in a meadow just outside the permitted boundaries of home, Harfoots Elanor Brandyfoot, Poppy Proudfellow, and Dilly Brandyfoot discover a recent footprint of a dangerous wolf.
Later in the episode, Elanor returns home and speaks with her father, Largo, and mother, Marigold, who advises her against exploring forbidden lands beyond home, despite Elanor's passionate intrigue at the possibilities of the wider Middle-earth.
In Lindon, capital of the High Elves on the west coast of Middle-earth, Galadriel arrives from Forodwaith and meets with her close friend Elrond, who is herald and speech-writer for High King Gil-galad. She tells Elrond of her search for Sauron that she intends to resume, and he cautions her against contesting Gil-galad's authority further. In a ceremony by the coast, Gil-galad honors Galadriel and the Elves who had accompanied her for their successful quest in ensuring, supposedly, that there is no remnant of Morgoth or Sauron. As the greatest possible reward, Gil-galad grants them passage to Valinor across the Sea, from the Grey Havens. That evening, Elrond exhorts Galadriel to not risk further lives of Elves trying to locate Sauron.
In the southern lands of Middle-earth, the Elf Arondir is introduced as one of a troop of Elves watching over Tirharad, a town of Men. He encounters Rowan, a young despiser of Elves, in a bar run by Waldreg, and interacts with Bronwyn, a human woman he fancies who works as the town-healer. At the local Elven outpost, Arondir hears from his commander the supposed news from Lindon that any threat of Sauron's return is no more. Because of this, the outpost is to be disbanded, ending Arondir's duties at Tirharad. He expresses resentment over the matter to Revion, his commander, who conveys his own low view of the people they have watched over, urging Arondir to be grateful to leave and return to Elven lands.
Conflicted because of his interest in Bronwyn, Arondir defies the will of his company and goes to Bronwyn and her son Theo's home. He attempts to convey his feelings to her, but is interrupted by Tredwill who arrives at the house with a sick cow for Bronwyn to diagnose. She and Arondir inspect her, and she emits a frightening black substance from her udders. When Tredwill tells that she had been wandering as far as the village of Hordern, Arondir sets out for Hordern, and Bronwyn goes with him. Meanwhile, Theo and Rowan are searching for something hidden in Waldreg's barn; Theo uncovers it beneath the floorboards: a mysterious sword-hilt emitting faint words of Black Speech. On its blade is the same mysterious symbol of Sauron that the Elves had earlier found.
Near Hordern, Arondir reminds Bronwyn that many Men of Hordern, as with Tirharad, are descended from allies of Morgoth. This displeases Bronwyn, who is close to some who live there. Hearing a noise suddenly, the two ascend a nearby hill and see that Hordern, beyond it, is aflame.
Some days after the scenes in Lindon, Galadriel, Thondir, and the group stand upright in a boat that has crossed the Sea from Mithlond, ready to enter the paradise of the Undying Lands. As they approach a great curtain of light at the fringe of Valinor, however, Galadriel has second thoughts, and, pulled by her desire to resume her quest for Sauron, she forfeits entry into Valinor and jumps the ship a second before it enters the curtain. Alone, she intends to swim back to Middle-earth.
At this same moment, a meteor flies eastward across Middle-earth's skies, seen by Gil-galad and the other primary characters of the episode. It lands near the Harfoots' home in Rhovanion. Out of curiosity, Elanor goes and approaches the smoldering crater alone, and sees a strange man lying at its center.
Characters
Species and creatures
Locations
"Adrift" is the second episode of The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power Season One. It aired on September 2, 2022.
Poppy finds Elanor Brandyfoot at the crater, and they strenuously relocate the sleeping Stranger with a cart. When he awakes, Elanor struggles to communicate with him. Unsettled, he suddenly causes great winds with his voice, and utters strange words Elanor cannot interpret. Back at home, Largo injures his ankle putting up a canopy.
Later in the episode, at evening, Poppy and Elanor meet with the Stranger again. They offer their help, unsure if he understands them. With telekinetic powers, he breaks open Poppy's firefly-lantern, and as the fireflies disperse, he speaks to them, entranced as they fly around. Then he arranges them into a certain constellation against the night sky, which Elanor believes to be a clue to find The Stranger's home.
In the fresh ruins of Hordern, where no survivors are present, Arondir and Bronwyn find and enter the burnt house of her friends Ciaran and Hana. Arondir goes alone into a tunnel below ground, leading from the house. By an underground pool, within the hour, he is suddenly seized into the dark by an unknown foe.
Back at Waldreg's bar in Tirharad, Bronwyn tries to convince the folk to spread the news of Hordern, but with no luck. At Bronwyn's house, Theo discovers beneath their floor-boards a long-hidden Orc (whose noise Theo had believed was caused by mice) just as Bronwyn returns home. As the Orc emerges, they hide from him, and then desperately try to kill him. She manages to behead the Orc. With his head, Bronwyn goes and convinces the town-folk to seek safety and relocate at the local Elven outpost.
Theo privately inspects the strange weapon he had found with Rowan in the prior episode, and then embarks with his mother, as all citizens of Tirharad exit the town with their belongings toward the Elven tower.
Elrond goes and meets Celebrimbor at Ost-in-Edhil, capital of Eregion, and marvels at the hammer of Fëanor had used to create the Silmarils. Celebrimbor tells of his own new ambitions, requesting that Elrond assist him in attaining the means to build a specialized forge-tower necessary for making the Rings of Power. For this, they go to Khazad-dûm to ask for the help of the Dwarves. In Khazad-dûm, Elrond fails in a contest to earn Prince Durin's favor, but Elrond convinces him to hear his proposal. He joins Durin and his wife, Disa, for dinner, and tells his proposal off-screen.
Durin later relays the proposal to King Durin III, his father, who is untrusting, and cautious against the notion of cooperation between Dwarves and Elves. In the same room, Durin III opens a chest, and the two observe a precious shiny object within, blocked from view.
Swimming back to Middle-earth, Galadriel encounters a raft of stranded human mariners frightened of a nearby sea-serpent who had wrecked their ship. Among them are Halbrand, Eamon, and Abigail. The sea-serpent soon finds them and destroys the raft, and Galadriel escapes with Halbrand only. Heading east, Halbrand questions Galadriel's business at sea, and after an argument, she is gratified to learn from him that Orcs are indeed still active on Middle-earth, as they had driven Halbrand from his home in the Southlands. At dusk, the waters turn stormy, and Galadriel nearly drowns before Halbrand rescues her.
In the last moment of the episode, an unknown ship the next morning finds Galadriel and Halbrand wearily sleeping on their raft.
Characters
Species and creatures
Locations
