"Point me!"
Harry James Potter (b. 31 July 1980) was an English half-blood wizard, and one of the most famous wizards of modern times. The only child and son of James and Lily Potter (née Evans), Harry's birth was overshadowed by a prophecy, naming either himself or Neville Longbottom as the one with the power to vanquish Lord Voldemort, the most powerful and feared Dark wizard in the world. After half of the prophecy was reported to Voldemort, courtesy of Severus Snape, Harry was chosen as the target due to his many similarities with the Dark Lord. In turn, this caused the Potter family to go into hiding.
Voldemort made his first attempt to circumvent the prophecy when Harry was a year and three months old. During this attempt, he murdered Harry's parents as they tried to protect him, but this unsuccessful attempt to kill Harry led to Voldemort's first downfall. This downfall marked the end of the First Wizarding War, and to Harry henceforth being known as "The Boy Who Lived", as he was the only known survivor of the Killing Curse due to being magically protected by his mother's loving sacrifice. In accordance with the terms of the prophecy, this attempt on his life also established him, not Neville, as Voldemort's nemesis.
One consequence of Lily's sacrifice was that her orphaned son had to be raised by her only remaining blood relative, his Muggle aunt Petunia Dursley, and her husband, uncle Vernon Dursley. While in their care, he would be protected from Lord Voldemort due to the Bond of Blood charm that Albus Dumbledore placed upon him. This powerful charm would protect him until he either came of age, or no longer called his aunt's house home. Due to Petunia's resentment of her sister and her magical abilities, Harry grew up abused and neglected.
Shortly before Harry's eleventh birthday, there were several attempts from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry to send him a letter inviting him to not only come to Hogwarts, but also to explain his magical heritage. Though Vernon Dursley ultimately made the decision to leave their residence at 4 Privet Drive temporarily to evade the letters, his attempts were ultimately for naught. On his eleventh birthday, Harry learned from Rubeus Hagrid that he was a wizard. Rubeus Hagrid took Harry from the Dursley family the next day to Diagon Alley. This is where Harry withdrew some of his money from Gringotts Wizarding Bank, where Hagrid bought Harry's snow-white owl, Hedwig. While he was in Diagon Alley, Harry also got his school supplies (i.e., books from Flourish and Blotts, his robes from Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions, and his potion equipment from Slug & Jiggers Apothecary). Harry began attending Hogwarts in 1991. The Sorting Hat told Harry that he would do well in Slytherin House, but Harry pleaded "not Slytherin". The Hat heeded this plea and sorted the young wizard into Gryffindor House. At school, Harry became best friends with Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. He was also the youngest Seeker in a century, making the house team in his first year when Minerva McGonagall introduced him to Oliver Wood, Gryffindor's Quidditch captain at the time. He later became the captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch Team in his sixth year, winning two Quidditch Cups. While in school, Harry also demonstrated an extraordinary talent for Defence Against the Dark Arts.
He became even better-known in his early years for protecting the Philosopher's Stone from Voldemort, saving Ron's sister Ginny Weasley, solving the mystery of the Chamber of Secrets, slaying Salazar Slytherin's basilisk, and learning how to conjure a corporeal Patronus at the age of thirteen, which took the form of a stag. In his fourth year, Harry won the Triwizard Tournament, although the person had to be seventeen to enter, and Harry was only fourteen. The competition ended with the tragic death of Cedric Diggory and the return of Lord Voldemort. During the next school year, in defiance of Dolores Umbridge's and the Ministry of Magic's strict regime against the teaching of Defence Against the Dark Arts and the continued introduction of the new Educational Decree, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger first had the idea of creating an illegal Defence Against the Dark Arts group called Dumbledore's Army. Harry was initially reluctant to the idea, but he gradually came to like it and eventually agreed to start the group. He also fought in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, during which he lost his godfather, Sirius Black, and the prophecy was destroyed.
Harry played a significant role in many other battles of the Second Wizarding War. During what would have been his seventh year, he, Ron, and Hermione hunted down and destroyed Voldemort's Horcruxes. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Harry personally saw the deaths of Severus Snape and Fred Weasley while learning that Remus Lupin, Nymphadora Tonks, Colin Creevey, and many others had fallen in the battle as well. He encountered Voldemort and nearly sacrificed himself, knowing that his doing so was the only way to destroy the fragment of Voldemort's soul inside of him. While in limbo, after Voldemort cursed him in the forest clearing, Dumbledore gave Harry advice and background information on the Dark Lord. When told that he could choose to live or to "move on," Harry ultimately chose to live. After he awoke, Harry confronted Voldemort and defeated him once and for all.
Harry was also noted for being the only known Master of Death, having united the three Deathly Hallows at the mere age of seventeen.
After the war, Harry became an Auror and helped reform and revolutionise the Ministry of Magic. At some point, he married Ginny, with whom he had three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus, and Lily Luna. He was also named the godfather of Edward "Teddy" Remus Lupin. In 2007, Harry was promoted to Head of the Auror Office at the age of 26, and would occasionally deliver Defence Against the Dark Arts lectures at Hogwarts. He was later promoted to Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement by the summer of 2020.
Harry as an infant with his parents
The Potters were an old and wealthy pure-blood family, dating back to their founding patriarch Linfred of Stinchcombe. Linfred was given the nickname "Potterer", which was changed simply to "Potter" over the years. The family took on the simplified nickname as a surname, thus leading to future generations calling themselves Potter.
The Potters were also descended from the Peverell family, via Hardwin Potter's marriage to Iolanthe Peverell. As such, they are related to Ignotus Peverell, one of the three brothers that created the Deathly Hallows, who passed the Cloak of Invisibility down to his descendants as a family heirloom. The Gaunt family were also descended from the Peverells through Cadmus Peverell, who passed the Resurrection Stone as an heirloom, set in a signet ring. The Potters were thus indirectly related to the Gaunts as well, and by extension, Lord Voldemort.
Before the start of the 17th century, some of Harry's ancestors migrated to the United States, and held strong ties with the Magical Congress of the United States of America. These ties developed as a result of Abraham Potter being one of the original twelve Aurors of MACUSA. This distant relation of Harry's was uncovered by genealogists centuries after Abraham's death.
The Potters were related to many other wizarding families in Britain, largely through the marriage of Charlus Potter to Dorea Black, who was, in fact, the great-aunt of Sirius Black, Harry's godfather and best friend of his father, James Potter. It is very likely that both Charlus and Dorea were closely related to Harry.
Two members of the Potter family had held positions on the Wizengamot. The first was Ralston Potter and the second Henry Potter. Harry inherited much wealth from his grandparents Fleamont and Euphemia, as Fleamont invented Sleekeazy's Hair Potion, which quadrupled the family gold. Harry's father James Potter was born late in the couple's lives. By that time, his parents were both elderly (even by wizarding standards), and he grew up in a doting household to the point where he became a proud yet arrogant boy. But deep down, James was a good person.
Conversely, Harry's mother Lily J. Evans was a Muggle-born, who was introduced to the wizarding world via her friendship with Severus Snape, who lived nearby. The discovery of Lily being a witch caused a rift between her and her older sister Petunia, who envied her abilities.
James and Lily first met when they attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry together in 1971. Their relationship was a rocky one; while James was a popular student and talented Quidditch player, Lily was unimpressed with him. This had to do with James' hostile relationship with Snape, who was falling in with a gang of Slytherins aspiring to join the Death Eaters.
By their seventh year, James lost the less savoury aspects of his personality and was even appointed Head Boy, despite the fact that he had not been a prefect. This impressed Lily, who was appointed Head Girl, and the two began dating.
The couple eventually married after graduation in 1978, and served as members of the original Order of the Phoenix at the height of the First Wizarding War. They personally defied Voldemort on three occasions, the first being when they refused to join his cause when he tried to recruit them (possibly at Snape's request).
Harry James Potter was born on 31 July 1980, at Godric's Hollow in the West Country, England, only hours after his future classmatee Neville Longbottom.  Around this time, a prophecy regarding a boy born at the end of July with the power to defeat Voldemort was stated to wizards. Harry's christening was quiet and quick, with only mother, father, and Sirius Black in attendance. Harry spent his infancy in hiding with his parents in the Potter cottage.
A young Harry having a jolly time on his toy broomstick
For Harry's first birthday, Sirius bought him a toy broomstick. Lily's letter to Sirius mentioned that this broomstick had been Harry's favourite present and that he had smashed a horrible vase that had been a gift from Petunia and nearly killed their cat. In the letter, Lily also included a picture of Harry flying around on the broom and James chasing after him. Lily also stated in the letter that Harry looked pleased with himself while flying around on the toy broom. Lily and James also hosted a very quiet birthday tea. The only ones in attendance were them, Harry, and Bathilda Bagshot also used to dote on infant Harry. The Potters owned a cat, but what happened to it after Voldemort's attack it remains unknown.
Voldemort arriving at Godric's Hollow, planning to murder the infant Harry
When it became clear that Voldemort marked the Potters for death in regards to the prophecy, Albus Dumbledore suggested that they use the Fidelius Charm to keep them safe. He even offered to be the Potter's Secret Keeper, but the Potters had already planned to make Sirius their Secret Keeper instead. On Sirius's advice, they changed this designation to Peter Pettigrew, who they thought would be less suspicious. In a terrible turn of fate, Pettigrew was a Death Eater spy, and betrayed the Potters' whereabouts barely a week later.
The Potter family home under attack, as Lily Potter was being murdered by Lord Voldemort
On the evening of Hallowe'en in 1981, Lord Voldemort arrived at Godric's Hollow and murdered James and Lily. He murdered James first, who tried to distract the Dark Lord; unfortunately, he did not have his wand with him and was killed immediately. Voldemort then advanced on Lily, who died trying to protect Harry. Her sacrifice prevented the Killing Curse from working on Harry, resulting in her love for Harry becoming a barrier to protecting him. When Voldemort attempted the curse on Harry, it backfired on the caster and instead of murdering Harry, Voldemort lost all his powers and his physical form was obliterated.
Harry as an infant facing death for the first time at the hands of Lord Voldemort
Voldemort was saved from death by the five Horcruxes he had made up to that point, including his diary, Gaunt's ring, Slytherin's locket, Hufflepuff's cup, and Ravenclaw's diadem. This later included Harry himself also, because a piece of Voldemort's unstable soul latched onto the only living being present. This gave him some of Voldemort's abilities such as the ability to speak Parseltongue. This event made Harry the only person to have survived the Killing Curse, thus giving him the title the "Boy Who Lived". The failed curse left a lightning-bolt scar on his forehead, marking him as Voldemort's equal. The scar would be both a bane and a blessing to Harry in the years to come, as it opened a telepathic link between Lord Voldemort and himself, giving each some awareness of each other's thoughts.
Rubeus Hagrid delivering baby Harry to 4 Privet Drive
Rubeus Hagrid rescued Harry from the house, partially destroyed by Voldemort's faulty killing curse, and was given specific orders from Albus Dumbledore to take him to his aunt and uncle. As Hagrid left, he was intercepted by Sirius Black, a close friend of the Potters, who pleaded for Hagrid to give the baby to him, as he was the chosen guardian in the event of James and Lily's death. Hagrid refused, saying that he was under orders from Dumbledore to take Harry to his relatives. Sirius reluctantly relented and gave Hagrid his flying motorcycle to take Harry to Privet Drive, and left to find Pettigrew, who subsequently faked his death and framed Sirius for his death and that of twelve Muggles.
Hagrid delivered Harry to Dumbledore late on the evening of 1 November 1981. Dumbledore left a letter of explanation to the family living in the house, the Dursleys, who did not want to take care of Harry.
On 1 September 1984, Albus Dumbledore mentioned Harry Potter's name at the Start-of-Term Feast to the residents of Hogwarts, telling them that he was safe, and that when old enough, he too would attend Hogwarts.
Dumbledore leaving the infant Harry with a note at the doorstep of 4 Privet Drive
As the Dursleys were Muggles, they could not use magic. They knew about its existence, but refused to associate with witches and wizards. They proudly considered themselves a "normal" family and despised anything out of the ordinary, even if it had nothing to do with witches, wizards, and magic. They lied to Harry about his parents' death, claiming they had died in a car crash. They also claimed that the lightning-bolt scar on Harry's forehead was from the same crash. Whenever Harry tried to remember it, all that he could vaguely recall (as if he 'strained his memory') was a green flash of light and a high, cold laugh. He tried to understand what it was, or if it was from the car crash, but he simply could not. Petunia and Vernon Dursley, Harry's new guardians, forbade him from asking questions, particularly those regarding his parents. In addition, the Dursleys refused to have pictures of Lily and James, and did their best to avoid the subject of Harry's parents altogether.
They resented Harry for his magic, which was sporadic but evident, and strongly discouraged any sort of imagination. They neglected Harry, verbally and emotionally abused him, and inflicted cruel punishments, like depriving him of meals and locking him into the cupboard under the stairs on him whenever something "unusual" occurred. Their behaviour was left unreported to authorities. In his youth, Harry could make strange things happen without understanding why he could, as no one had told him that he was a wizard.
For instance, after Petunia had sheared off all of his messy hair using a pair of kitchen scissors in her fury that it would not lay flat, leaving him almost completely bald with only the fringe at the front, it had grown all the way back, and to its previous messy state at that, by the next morning. Harry was punished, even though he had not done anything on purpose. Another time, Dedalus Diggle bowed to him in a shop, and Petunia furiously interrogated Harry as to know how he knew the man before leaving the shop hastily.
Harry living in a cupboard beneath the staircase
The Dursleys spoiled and pampered their son, Dudley, and paid almost no attention to Harry with what little attention they did pay to him being negative in its entirety. All his clothes were hand-me-downs from Dudley and were far too large for Harry. He was forced to sleep in the Cupboard Under the Stairs, while his cousin got two bedrooms to himself (one for sleeping in and one for storing all his toys). They also made Harry do household chores for them, such as making food and getting the post. In time, Dudley started bullying Harry. The Dursleys took Dudley and his friend Piers Polkiss to someplace spectacular every year for his birthday, but the only thing Harry ever got for his birthday was one of Vernon's old socks or a coat-hanger.
The Dursleys always hid evidence of Harry's existence by not having pictures of him in the house. Among the few people who did know about Harry were Petunia's friend Yvonne and Vernon's sister Marge, the latter of whom the boy was forced to consider an aunt to him, despite not being a relative of his. Aunt Marge showed the most dislike for the frail boy while visiting Privet Drive during Dudley Dursley's fifth birthday, when she whacked Harry around the shins to stop him from beating Dudley at musical statues, and on holidays like Christmas, when she brought a computerised robot for Dudley and a box of dog biscuits for Harry to apparently eat. She eventually made a fool out of the young Potter during Dudley's tenth birthday, when Harry accidentally stepped on the paw of her favourite pet bulldog Ripper, causing the enraged dog to chase him out into the garden and up a tree. Dudley laughed himself silly at the sight of his cousin then, and to the Dursleys' delight, Marge refused to call Ripper off until past midnight.
Harry with his aunt in the kitchen of 4 Privet Drive
Harry's hardship, however, was highly necessary as by returning to live with his mother's only living blood relative, the protection that Lily gave Harry would continue. While Harry could call that place home he could not be harmed. However, the Bond of blood charm would be broken when Harry turned seventeen years old, or when he no longer called 4 Privet Drive his home.
Unknown to Harry, one of his neighbours, Arabella Figg, was a Squib who had been ordered by Albus Dumbledore to keep an eye on Harry but to not reveal anything of the wizarding world to him. Unfortunately for Harry, to maintain favour with the Dursleys, she was forced to give him a lousy time whenever she had to look after him, as the Dursleys would never have let him go if they knew Harry was enjoying himself, a possibility that infuriated them. Harry discovered her connection to the wizarding world when it was revealed during the summer before his fifth year that she worked undercover for the Order of the Phoenix to keep tabs on Harry for his safety.
Potter speaking Parseltongue to a boa constrictor at the zoo
On 23 June 1991, Dudley's eleventh birthday, the Dursleys went to the zoo with Dudley and Piers. Unfortunately for the Dursleys, they had to take Harry with them, as Mrs Figg had broken her leg and there was no one to take Harry, and they refused to leave him alone in their house. At the zoo, Harry spoke with a boa constrictor and unintentionally made the glass of its enclosure disappear. This allowed the snake to slither out of his cage which scared Dudley into thinking it was after him. Harry was able to communicate in Parseltongue with the freed boa, which thanked Harry briefly, then slithered out of the reptile house calmly. After this incident, the enraged Dursleys sentenced Harry to his cupboard until the beginning of the summer holidays.
Harry attended St. Grogory's Primary School, a Muggle primary school, with Dudley. He had no friends there, since all the students were afraid of Dudley's tough friends, who hated Harry simply because Dudley did. Dudley and his friends liked to play a unique game — 'Harry Hunting' — which involved chasing Harry for hours on end. Although Harry was good at sports, he was always the last picked for a team because no one wanted to admit to Dudley that they liked him, rather than because he was no good.
Harry accidentally turned his teacher's wig blue
Harry got decent, if not good grades at school. On one occasion, Harry accidentally turned his teacher's wig blue; on another, he accidentally apparated onto the school kitchen roof when escaping from Dudley's gang; and on a third, he made Dudley's old jumper shrink as Aunt Petunia tried to shove it over his head. These incidents always enraged the Dursleys, and after each, they would punish Harry by throwing him into the cupboard — except for after the jumper incident because Aunt Petunia thought that the jumper had shrunk in the wash.
If Harry had not gone to Hogwarts, then he would have attended Stonewall High, a Muggle secondary school that Harry dreaded attending.
Potter's Hogwarts acceptance letter
Harry had no birthday celebrations until the day he turned 11, which was the same day that he discovered the exceptional reality about his identity. On the week of Harry's birthday, hundreds of letters began arriving at the Dursleys' home, addressed to him from a place called Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. When the Dursleys saw the first letter was addressed as "cupboard under the stairs", they panicked at the thought of Harry's ill treatment being observed and transferred him to Dudley's second bedroom out of fear of being arrested for child abuse, which soon appeared on letters as the smallest bedroom.
When Uncle Vernon first read the letter, he turned a pale porridge grey out of fear that witches and wizards were trying to contact Harry. Because of this, Vernon tried to destroy the letters in a futile attempt to keep Harry from his destiny. But the letters kept coming in increasingly larger quantities, to the point where they started flying out of the fireplace by the dozens, and as they did, the Dursleys saw no alternative, but to flee from them. This was not enough to let the Dursleys avoid the letters, however, as the owls carrying these letters followed them wherever they went. On 30 July 1991, In a final desperate move on, the Dursleys moved to a shack on a rocky island at the edge of the sea.
Potter receiving a birthday cake from Hagrid on his eleventh birthday
At midnight on Harry's birthday, Rubeus Hagrid appeared in person to find out why Harry had not received his letter. He was infuriated by the Dursleys and explained to Harry, in spite of Vernon's obstinate protests, that he was a wizard, how his parents died, that Dumbledore demanded him to take Harry from the ruined house to his hated relatives, and that he was to be sent to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
This would be Harry's first birthday celebration and Hagrid gave him a small homemade birthday cake and later, a snowy owl. Harry named her Hedwig, a name he had found from his textbook (A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot). This was the first birthday present Harry ever received. Hagrid took Harry to the Leaky Cauldron, where he learned that he was famous. He met Quirinus Quirrell, his soon-to-be Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts, the Inn-keeper Tom, a witch named Doris Crockford, and Dedalus Diggle — the man who had bowed to Harry several years earlier. Hagrid then took Harry to Diagon Alley, where he learned more about his fame in the wizarding world and that his parents had left him a small fortune in a vault at Gringotts Wizarding Bank.
Potter at Ollivander's on Diagon Alley buying his wand
Harry bought his first wand from Ollivander's that very day. The wand that chose Harry was made of holly wood and had a phoenix feather core; it was 11", nice and supple. The phoenix feather at its core came from Dumbledore's phoenix Fawkes. It was crafted by Garrick Ollivander, who had also created a twin wand. This wand had been made from yew, and contained the only other feather supplied by Fawkes. This twin wand had chosen Tom Riddle as its master long ago. But after turning to evil and assumed the alias of Lord Voldemort, Riddle ended up using this wand to attack Harry and his parents. Sharing the same phoenix origin, the two wands had a unique connection that would prevent them from successfully duelling against each other in the years to come.
Harry was guided further to his destiny on 1 September, 1991, when he was dropped off by the Dursleys at King's Cross Station. Vernon helped Harry wheel his things to the platforms and left laughing about how Platform Nine and Three-Quarters had not yet been built. The family then drove off, leaving Harry at the busy station all alone. With only ten minutes left until the train's departure at eleven a.m., Harry was panicking when he overheard a red-headed family complaining about the station being packed with Muggles, and he noticed that they had an owl with their belongings.
Harry meeting the Weasleys for the first time at King's Cross Station
Harry watched as the older boys magically passed through the barrier between platforms nine and ten. Harry nervously interrupted them and was introduced to their youngest son Ron, who was starting his first year as well. Molly (Ron's mother) kindly gave him instructions on how to board the platform. Harry quickly ran through the barrier, followed by Ron, and arrived on the Platform, catching his first sight of the Hogwarts Express. As most of the compartments were full, Harry pushed his things to near the end of the train, and with some help from twins from the red-headed family, was able to get his things aboard.
While helping, the twins noticed his scar and recognised that he must be Harry Potter. While Harry sat near the window in his compartment watching the family, the twins Fred and George Weasley reported this discovery to the amazement of their little sister Ginny and their older brother Percy who was a Prefect and had already changed into his robes. After boarding, the train soon departed and Ron asked if he could sit with Harry, who agreed. Ron asked Harry about his scar, and Harry asked if Ron's whole family were wizards, which they are except for his mother's second cousin, who was an accountant. When the trolley witch came by around half-past twelve, Harry bought some of all the treats from the cart and shared them with Ron.
The trio meeting for the first time aboard the Hogwarts Express
Neville Longbottom soon came by searching for his lost toad, Trevor. While Ron was attempting a magic spell to change his rat Scabbers, Hermione Granger interrupted trying to help find Trevor. After Ron's spell failed, Hermione introduced herself and upon learning Harry's name, informed him that he was in several books on magical history. While speculating which house they might be in, Harry and Ron were interrupted by Draco Malfoy, Vincent Crabbe, and Gregory Goyle. Although Draco attempted to ingratiate himself, Harry refused to shake his hand after he insulted Ron and his family. When Goyle attempted to take some of their Chocolate Frog Cards, Scabbers bit his finger and helped drive them off. Ron afterwards explained that the Malfoy family were on Voldemort's side, but came back saying they had been bewitched, although his father did not believe it.
Upon arriving, Hagrid gathered all the first years together and they followed a path down to the edge of a Great Lake. In groups of no more than four, they climbed aboard a little fleet of small boats, and sailed across the lake to an underground harbour. Helping to remind Neville to take his toad, Hagrid took them up a passageway to the gates of the castle.
The new students were greeted at the castle door by Professor Minerva McGonagall, who explained the four houses of Hogwarts: Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and Slytherin, as well as the rules of the House Cup. McGonagall led the first years into a small room off the Entrance Hall and told them to wait until she returned. When she did, they were led into the Great Hall, where they were greeted by the rest of the students, and more importantly, a shabby wizard's hat on a small stool.
Harry during the Sorting Ceremony
Harry was particularly anxious, as he did not feel that any of the Houses as they were described in the Hat's song were right for him. Harry noted that Draco Malfoy, whom Harry had met in Diagon Alley, was instantly placed in Slytherin, and remembered what Hagrid and Ron had told him about Slytherin's reputation for turning out Dark wizards, and that Voldemort had been in Slytherin. When Harry put on the Hat, it slipped down past his eyes, and the hat told him that he "would do well in Slytherin". Thinking of Voldemort, Harry desperately repeated the phrase "not Slytherin". The Hat heeded Harry's request and placed Harry in Gryffindor along with Ron and Hermione Granger. In his second year during a visit to Dumbledore's office, the Sorting Hat re-emphasised the idea that Harry "would do well in Slytherin".
The Sorting Ceremony was followed by the Start-of-Term Feast. Having previously never been allowed to eat as much as he wanted, Harry was overwhelmed by the sheer variety of foods in front of him. Dessert arrived, and talk turned to the first-years' families. Neville Longbottom told the others how his family thought he was a Squib until his great-uncle accidentally dropped him out of a window, and he bounced.
Harry as his scar began to hurt during the Sorting Ceremony after making eye contact with Severus Snape
It was during the feast that Harry's scar hurt for the first time: Harry was looking up at the staff table at Professor Quirrell when the hook-nosed teacher Quirrell was talking to looked past Quirrell at Harry, who immediately felt a sharp pain in his scar. This was because Lord Voldemort was inhabiting Quirrell's body as anytime Voldemort was near Harry's scar hurt. After the last morsels melted from the golden plates and goblets, Dumbledore gave a speech welcoming the new students to the school and the old students back. He added a few warnings about staying away from the Forbidden Forest, and avoiding the third-floor corridor before leading the school in singing the school song and sending everyone off to their dormitories.
In his first ever Potions class, Harry discovered that Professor Snape hated him, mocking him as the school's "new celebrity" before teaching the class how to brew a Boil-Cure Potion. Harry and Ron went down to Hagrid's hut for tea, where they met Hagrid's huge and fierce-looking dog, Fang. Hagrid told Harry that he was overreacting to Snape's treatment, asserting that he would have no reason to hate him. Hagrid and Ron began to talk about Ron's older brother Charlie Weasley. While they were talking, Harry picked up a cutting from the Daily Prophet that was lying on the table. The article detailed a break-in that occurred on Harry's birthday at Gringotts. The vault that was broken into was number 713, the same vault Hagrid visited with Harry on their trip to Diagon Alley.
The first flying class of the 1991–1992 school year
One of the things that Harry had been looking forward to was learning to fly until he found out that the Gryffindors would be taking flying lessons with the Slytherins. Malfoy had been bragging about his skill to anyone who would listen. Madam Rolanda Hooch taught the class by starting with basic broom control. After learning the theory, the students were told to hover gently off the ground on Madam Hooch's go-ahead. Terrified of being left behind, Neville panicked and kicked off before anyone else, rising fifty feet in the air before falling off and breaking his wrist. Madam Hooch took Neville to the Hospital Wing after warning the other students to stay on the ground until she got back.
Draco Malfoy nicked Neville's Remembrall from off the ground and was told to give it to Harry, jeering that he would leave it "up a tree" unless Harry stopped him and took off on his broom. Harry mounted his broom and kicked off after him. As much to his surprise as everyone else's, he discovered that he could not only fly, but that it was something he did not need to be taught. Bending low on the broom handle, he shot toward Draco, who realised that Harry was a better flyer and threw the Remembrall into the air, daring the famous boy to catch it. Harry raced the ball towards the ground, catching it and coming out of his dive a foot from the ground. He toppled lightly onto the grass amidst the cheers of the Gryffindors, grinning wildly.
McGonagall discovering Harry's potential as the new Gryffindor Seeker
His euphoria did not last long, however, as Professor McGonagall quickly arrived on the scene. Having seen the dive, she ordered Harry to follow her. Expecting punishment, Harry was instead introduced to Oliver Wood, whom she pulled out of a Charms class. Captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team, Wood's confusion at being introduced to a first year quickly turned to excitement and ecstasy upon hearing McGonagall recount the dive. He told her that Harry would need a decent broom if they were to compete, and explained to Harry that he would make an excellent Seeker, perhaps rivalling the legendary Charlie Weasley.
Harry told Ron about everything that happened after he left with McGonagall over dinner that night, but warned him that Wood wanted to keep it a secret. Much calmer on the ground, and with his cronies Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle flanking him, Draco came over to taunt Harry about getting in trouble earlier. Enraged that Harry not only escaped trouble, but was instead rewarded, he challenged Harry to a wizard's duel. In spite of Hermione's attempt to dissuade them from breaking the school rules, (or perhaps because of it), Harry accepted the challenge.
The trio trespassing in the restricted third-floor corridor
As they left the tower, the trio found Neville (whose wrist had been fixed by Madam Pomfrey) waiting outside, having forgotten the password. Neville decided to go with them and the four arrived at the Trophy Room (the site of the duel), but Malfoy was nowhere to be found. They speculated that he may have chickened out and were deciding what to do next when they heard the school caretaker Argus Filch and his cat, Mrs Norris, enter the room. Realising that Draco tricked them and informed Filch of their location, they attempted to quietly exit the room. A nearby doorknob rattled and Peeves, Hogwarts' resident poltergeist, burst into the hallway, threatening to expose them.
The trio encountering Fluffy, a three-headed dog, guarding a trap door
Growing desperate, Ron took a swipe at Peeves, who began to bellow their whereabouts as loud as he could, attracting Filch. The four kids ran right to the end of the corridor, where they found themselves stopped by a locked door, which Hermione opened with the Unlocking Charm using Harry's wand. They hurried inside, thinking themselves out of danger until turning around and coming face-to-face with a monstrous sight: a giant three-headed dog. Choosing Filch over death, the children ran for it, somehow managing to get back to their dormitory without running into anyone along the way. Though shaken by the night's events, Harry's interest in exploring was piqued by Hermione's pointing out that the dog was standing on a trapdoor.
Harry receiving a Nimbus 2000, a gift from Professor McGonagall
Over breakfast the next morning, Harry and Ron were discussing what Fluffy could be guarding when the mail arrived. Harry, who had received no mail apart from Hagrid's letter, was intrigued as everyone else by the long, oddly-shaped package in the mail that morning, and was even more surprised than the others when he discovered what was inside: a Nimbus 2000, and with a note from Professor McGonagall warning him not to open the package at the table, and that he was to meet Wood that night for Quidditch practice. Taking the broom up to their dormitory, Harry and Ron were stopped by Malfoy, who seized the package and told Harry that first-year students are not allowed their own brooms. When Professor Flitwick walked up to them, he tried to report Harry, but Flitwick, who had been told of Harry's special permission, just expressed admiration for Harry's talent.
A Hallowe'en lesson on the Levitation Charm
On Hallowe'en, Professor Flitwick began teaching his students how to perform the Levitation Charm. Only Hermione succeeded; offended by her air of superiority, Ron later made a nasty comment that she overheard. The comment was about her lack of friends, causing her to run off to lock herself in the girl's bathroom in tears and making him and Harry feel slightly guilty. When the two went down to the Hallowe'en feast later, their guilt was forgotten amidst the splendour of the decorations.
Partway into the feast, Quirrell arrived to announce that there was a twelve-foot Mountain Troll in the dungeons before fainting where he stood. The prefects led the students back to their dorms, but Harry realised that Hermione did not know about the troll and convinced Ron to help save her, since they were responsible. They sneaked off to the girl's bathroom to warn Hermione, locking the troll inside. However, they did not realise their mistake until they heard Hermione's terrified scream emanate from the bathroom. A horrified Harry and Ron ran back into the bathroom to rescue her. After a brief skirmish, during which Harry stuck his wand up the troll's nose, Ron finally knocked the troll out, by levitating the troll's own club to smash into its head.
The mountain troll in the bathroom, where Hermione was hiding
Attracted by the troll's yells, the teachers arrived to find Harry, Ron, and Hermione covered in dust, and the bathroom in disarray. Professor McGonagall, head of Gryffindor, began scolding the boys for not going straight to their dormitories with the rest of their house, but instead putting themselves in grave danger. Much to Harry and Ron's surprise, Hermione lied to McGonagall and told her that she had gone looking for the troll, as she thought she could handle them. She claimed that Harry and Ron were looking for her, (which was true), and she would most likely be dead if the boys had failed to rescue her (also true). The three bonded over the shared experience, and were friends thereafter.
As the Quidditch season began, Harry became increasingly nervous. The first match of the season was against Slytherin. Harry was under increasing pressure to show that he was not just a famous name. In an attempt to calm his nerves, Harry borrowed a book entitled Quidditch Through the Ages, a book that was comprehensive history of the sport, that Hermione must have checked put from the library. During break on the day before the match, Harry, Ron, and Hermione were huddled together around a jar of flames, which had been conjured by Hermione, to keep warm.
Harry noticing the blood on Snape's robes and a slight limp when he walked
Snape noticed their guilty faces, and looking for a reason to punish them, confiscated Harry's book on the feeble pretext that library books were not be taken outside. Harry noticed that Snape was limping, as though his leg was injured, strengthening his suspicions that the Potions Master was after whatever it was that Fluffy was guarding. Nervous about the next day's match, Harry decided to ask Snape for the book back; realising that he would most likely be in the staffroom and that it would be harder for Snape to bully him if there were other teachers around, Harry decided to confront him. Approaching the door, Harry overheard Snape complaining to Filch about Fluffy. After opening the door, Harry saw Filch helping Snape to bandage his leg. He returned to the Common Room and then told his two friends everything he had seen.
Harry playing in his first Quidditch match against Slytherin
Harry had little time to dwell on Snape's injury as the first Quidditch match began the very next morning. Harry's job as being the Gryffindor Seeker was to catch the Golden Snitch. The snitch is a walnut-sized gold ball, that is extremely fast and difficult to see. The entire match rested upon the retrieval of the Snitch. Harry's first attempt to catch the Snitch was foiled when the Slytherin Seeker blatched him. Though the Seeker was penalised, the move succeeded in stopping Harry from getting to the Snitch.
Soon after, Harry's broom began bucking uncontrollably as if trying to unseat him. The bucking became even more violent with each passing second, until Harry was hanging from the broom with just one hand. As the crowd looked on with horror, some of the professors had their wands at the ready should he fall. Ron and Hermione began to wonder if the other was at fault. That is until Hagrid, who had arrived to watch the game, noted that it would take powerful dark magic to make a broomstick so hard to manage, magic that powerful was well above the level of a second year and therefore had to have been cast by a qualified wizard. This announcement did nothing to help the worried friends.
Harry catching the Snitch and winning the opening match against Slytherin
Hermione, who had turned her gaze away from Harry, and was scanning the stands, noticed that Snape was staring unblinkingly at Harry and muttering non-stop under his breath. Thinking quickly, Hermione took advantage of the fact that everyone's attention was now focused on Harry (and the Weasley twins' attempts to rescue him) to run around the entire stadium, knocking over Professor Quirrell, and ending up behind Snape. Muttering a few "well-chosen words" Hermione lit Snape's robes on fire with Bluebell Flames; a yell of shock told her she had done her job and she scooped the fire into a jar. Suddenly, up in the air, the spell on Harry's broomstick was broken and he was once again able to control his broom. The spectators watched in confusion as Harry dove towards the ground, only to clasp his hand to his mouth as if he was being violently sick the instant he landed. In actuality, Harry had caught the Snitch in his mouth. His capture of the Snitch ended the match, resulting in Gryffindor's victory.
The trio searching for information on Flamel in the Hogwarts Library
After the match, Hagrid took the three back to his hut. Ron and Hermione told Harry and Hagrid about what was happening on the other side of the stands, and how Snape was cursing his broomstick. Hagrid, however, did not believe them, asking why Snape would try to kill Harry; Harry told Hagrid about Snape being bitten by the dog in the third-floor corridor. Surprised by their knowledge, Hagrid involuntarily revealed that the dog belonged to him, and that what the dog was guarding did not concern them, as it was a secret known only to Albus Dumbledore and a man named Nicolas Flamel.
Impressed as they were with the fact that Harry had managed to hold onto a bucking broomstick, Malfoy soon found that the rest of the school no longer found his taunts that Harry was to be replaced amusing, and so reverted to teasing Harry about having to stay at Hogwarts for the holidays. Harry, however, was looking forward to spending Christmas away from the Dursleys, especially in light of the fact that Ron was also staying at Hogwarts, but also because it would give them some time to look up Nicolas Flamel; they were certain that the librarian would be able to find a book on Flamel in an instant, but were worried that it might be suspicious, and were thus forced to search for themselves.
Harry receiving his father's Cloak of Invisibility as a Christmas gift
On Christmas day, Harry and Ron awoke to a pile of presents, each at the foot of their beds. At the bottom of the pile, he found a package containing an Invisibility Cloak and an anonymous note telling him only that the cloak once belonged to his father, and to "use it well". That night, Harry thought on the Cloak and decided to try it out. Realising he could go anywhere, he snuck back to the library and headed straight for the Restricted Section. Knowing he had to start somewhere, Harry pulled down one of the heavier books, and let it fall open on his knee. To his shock and horror, the silence was rent by a blood-curdling scream that issued from the book in front of him. He stuffed the book back in its place and ran for the door, knocking over the lantern he brought with him in his haste. Ducking under Filch's outstretched arms, Harry ran down the dark corridors, away from the library, and away from Filch.
Thinking he had escaped, Harry was scared to hear Filch's voice approaching, and horrified when he realised whom Filch was talking to: Snape. As Snape and Filch rounded the corner, Harry realised that although his father's cloak made him invisible, it did not stop him from being solid, and that he had no chance of sneaking past them, as the corridor was particularly narrow. Thinking quickly, (and panicking slightly), Harry noticed a door to his left; slipping inside, he found himself in an abandoned classroom. After Filch and Snape passed his hiding place, Harry relaxed and took in more details about the room he was in.
Harry standing in front of the Mirror of Erised
In doing so, he noticed something he had missed the first time: an old, gilded mirror bearing the inscription “Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi”. Stepping in front of the mirror, Harry very nearly cried out in shock: inside the mirror he saw a large crowd of people standing behind him. Shocked, Harry turned around to look at the room, but saw no one there. Turning back to the mirror and looking more closely, Harry realised that the man and woman in the front looked oddly like him. The man looked just like him, from his untidy hair to his glasses, and the woman, Harry saw, had the same eyes he had. Understanding, Harry focused on other members of the crowd, and saw others who had his untidy hair, his eyes, and even an old man who had Harry's knees; Harry was looking at his family, for the first time in his life.
The next night, Harry brought Ron with him to the mirror room. Ron did not see Harry's family in the mirror, but instead saw himself standing alone, tall, holding the House Cup, wearing badges indicating he was Head Boy and Quidditch Captain. The two began arguing over who would be allowed to look in the mirror; Mrs Norris, Filch's prowling cat, entered the room, attracted by the sounds of their argument. The next day, Ron, worried about being caught and about his friend's obsession with the mirror, warned Harry not to return; Harry, however, was not to be dissuaded.
Dumbledore advising Harry from seeking out the mirror again
Going to the room that evening, Harry was ready to stay there all night, staring at the family he lost. However, in his haste, he failed to notice Professor Dumbledore standing by the door until after he removed his cloak. Dumbledore, who had been waiting for Harry, explained that the mirror, which was known as the “Mirror of Erised”, displayed the deepest, most desperate desire of whoever looked into it. Harry, who had never known his family, saw them standing around him; Ron, ever overshadowed by his older brothers, saw himself standing alone, the best of them all.
Before sending Harry back to bed, however, Dumbledore warned him that the mirror was a dangerous object; men had been driven mad by what they saw in the mirror, not knowing if what they saw was real, or even possible. He told Harry that the mirror was to be moved to a new location, and warned Harry to not go looking for it. Before he left, Harry asked the headmaster what he saw in the mirror. Much to his surprise, Dumbledore told Harry that he saw himself with a pair of woollen socks. Despite his promise to Dumbledore, Harry found it difficult to forget the image of his parents, until Wood told the team that Snape would be refereeing the next Quidditch match against Hufflepuff.
Harry cheering Neville up after the latter was bullied by Draco Malfoy
Shortly before the match, Malfoy, ever eager to pick on Neville, used the Leg-Locker Curse on Neville, forcing him to bunny hop his way back to the Common Room. Harry told Neville he was "worth twelve of Malfoy" and gave him a Chocolate Frog. Thanking Harry, Neville handed the card back to Harry for his collection. Looking down, Harry noted it was Dumbledore's card, the first he ever got. He turned the card over and suddenly remembered where he read the name Nicolas Flamel before: on the train on the way to school.
As the Gryffindor vs. Hufflepuff Quidditch match drew nearer, tensions mounted in the school; Gryffindor had failed to overtake Slytherin in the Inter-House Quidditch Cup for seven years, and Harry was worried that it would be impossible with Snape as a referee. Unknown to Harry, Ron and Hermione had been practising the Leg-Locker Curse to use on Snape, should he show any signs of wanting to harm Harry. Before the match began, Wood took Harry aside and reminded him that he needed to catch the Snitch as soon as he could, before Snape could favour Hufflepuff too much. Harry performed his role as Seeker phenomenally, catching the Snitch within five minutes of the game starting, putting Gryffindor in first place for the Quidditch Cup.
The trio watching a dragon egg hatch while in Hagrid's Hut
Having realised how much Harry, Ron, and Hermione had worked out about the Stone after running into them in the library, Rubeus Hagrid told them to meet him in his hut later. When the trio arrived later, they noticed that the fire was lit, despite the heat of the day. Although he was reluctant to answer their questions, Hermione managed to manipulate him into talking about the various protections used to guard it: Fluffy, the three headed dog, was Hagrid's, along with enchantments from Professors Sprout, Flitwick, McGonagall, Quirrell, and Snape. Growing uncomfortable in the heat, Harry asked Hagrid to open a window, something Hagrid refused to do as he had a dragon egg in the fire. Unfortunately, Draco Malfoy discovered the dragon, and decided to use the knowledge to get revenge by getting them into trouble for possessing an illegal dragon. So Malfoy in turn, tried to tell McGonagall of the trio's activities.
Harry and Hermione waiting on top of the Astronomy tower with baby Norbert
To save everyone involved, Harry, Ron, and Hermione convinced Hagrid to send Norbert off to Ron's brother Charlie Weasley, who would take Norbert to a Romanian dragon preserve. While helping Hagrid to prepare Norbert for the journey, the dragon bit Ron's hand, causing it to swell up and forcing Ron to see Madam Pomfrey. On the pre-arranged night, Harry and Hermione managed to smuggle Norbert in a crate up to the Astronomy Tower under Harry's Invisibility Cloak. On the way up, they witnessed Professor McGonagall hauling Malfoy away for being out of bed at night, who protested that Harry was in possession of a dragon. Harry and Hermione passed the crate off to Charlie's friends and headed back down the stairs, where they were confronted by a gleeful Argus Filch; they had left the Cloak behind.
Harry in the Dark Forest with Draco Malfoy during their detention
Filch took them to McGonagall's office, where they found Neville, who had attempted to warn them about Malfoy. Minerva McGonagall, who was very disappointed in them, took fifty points each from Harry, Hermione, and Neville and gave the three detention, which they were to serve along with Malfoy. Riding high on his Quidditch wins, Harry's popularity plummeted: no one wanted to talk to the "stupid first year" who, along with two others, had lost Gryffindor their chance of defeating Slytherin, and winning the House Cup. A week or so before exams, Harry's new determination to not meddle in others' business was tested when he heard Professor Quirrell, whimpering as if he was being threatened. Believing that Snape was the one threatening Quirrell, and that he was going after the Stone, Hermione suggested that they go talk to Professor Dumbledore, but Harry dismissed the idea, as they had no proof.
The next morning, Harry, Hermione, and Neville received notes from Professor McGonagall informing them their detention would begin at eleven that night. Argus Filch took them out to the Forbidden Forest, where Hagrid was waiting for them. Hagrid led them into the Forbidden Forest and showed them a pool of unicorn blood on the ground. They split up, Hagrid taking Harry and Hermione, while Neville and Malfoy went off with Fang. After Malfoy scared Neville into sending up red sparks, Hagrid sent Harry off with Malfoy, deciding that Malfoy would be less likely to scare Harry.
Harry with Firenze in the forest discussing the properties of unicorn blood
As they continued, Harry noticed the pools of unicorn blood they were following seemed to be growing larger and larger, as if the animal had been thrashing around. Eventually, they came to a clearing and found the laying on the ground, and very dead. As they watched, a hooded figure emerged from the bushes and began to drink the unicorn's blood. Malfoy screamed and bolted away with Fang, leaving Harry, half blinded by the pain in his scar to stumble away from the advancing figure. Harry was saved by Firenze, a palamino centaur, who allowed Harry to ride on his back out of the forest. Firenze told Harry the properties of unicorn blood. Harry realised that there would only be one person who would be so desperate as to kill a unicorn: Lord Voldemort.
While talking to Ron and Hermione after finishing their exams, Harry realised the strange coincidence that had occurred: Hagrid wanted a dragon more than anything else, only to meet a stranger who had one to give him. They ran down to ask Hagrid more about the man who gave him Norbert, only to find out that the stranger never lowered his hood, something of a fashion in the Hogs head. Hagrid explained that he could not remember much, as the man kept buying him drinks, but said that he thought they talked about Hogwarts and the kinds of creatures Hagrid looks after there.
The trio attempting to tell McGonagall about the plot to steal the Philosopher's Stone
Focused on remembering what had happened that night, Hagrid accidentally let slip that Fluffy fell asleep when played music. Now convinced that Snape had all the information he needed to get past Fluffy,Harry, Ron, and Hermione decided to go see Professor Dumbledore and tell him their suspicions. While walking across the Entrance Hall, they were stopped by Professor McGonagall, and decided to tell her what they had found out. She insisted that no one could steal the Stone, and told them that Dumbledore was in London for the day.
As the trio set off that night to stop Snape, they were stopped themselves by Neville, who believed that they were sneaking out without reason again, and was worried that they would loose Gryffindor even more points. Desperate as they were for time, Hermione paralysed Neville. When they arrived the third-floor corridor, it was to find Fluffy awake, but a harp by his feet. Remembering what Hagrid told them, Harry began to blow into the wooden flute Hagrid gave him for Christmas. From the first notes, Fluffy's eyes began to droop, and he quickly fell asleep. Jumping through the trapdoor, they found themselves in Professor Sprout's room, filled with Devil's Snare, which almost smothered them.
Harry retrieving the right key from the swarm
The next room, Professor Flitwick's, held a bunch of flying keys and some broomsticks. Harry found the correct key, caught it, and unlocked the next door with it. The next room was Professor McGonagall's, and had a large chessboard, for a game of Wizard's Chess which Ron won at the cost of sacrificing himself. Harry and Hermione continued to the next room (leaving an unconscious Ron where they could return for him), to find an unconscious troll; Professor Quirrell's room. Lastly, they entered Professor Snape's room, and found seven potions in bottles along with a roll of paper giving clues on which one to drink to continue: a logic puzzle. Hermione solved the puzzle, and at Harry's urging, drank the potion that allowed her to head back so that she could get Ron out, while Harry drank the potion to go forward to the final room.
Harry and Quirrell in the Dungeon
Once inside the room, Harry's attention was drawn to two things: the Mirror of Erised, and Quirrell. Quirrell bound Harry before explaining that the Mirror was the key to finding the Stone. Desperate to distract him from the Mirror, Harry questioned Quirrell, who revealed that he was serving Lord Voldemort, and although Snape hated Harry (because Snape allegedly loathed his father in their time at school), he never wanted him dead. Unable to locate the Stone, Quirrell asked Voldemort for help; much to Harry's surprise, a voice which seemed to issue from Quirrell himself said "to use the boy".
Looking in the Mirror, Harry saw his reflection pull the Stone out of his pocket and replace it, at which point he felt the real Stone drop his real pocket. He told Quirrell that he saw himself winning the House Cup, but Voldemort, an accomplished Legilimens, informed Quirrell that Harry was lying, and ordered Quirrell to allow him to speak "to the boy". Quirrell unwrapped his turban, and turned away from Harry. Sticking out of the back of Quirrell's head, Voldemort demanded that Harry give him the Stone. Harry refused, and Quirrell seized him, causing Harry's scar to sear with pain; but contact with Harry's skin burned Quirrell's hands, forcing him to release Harry. Realising that contact caused Quirrell pain, Harry grabbed Quirrell's arm and held on until he blacked out.
Harry in the Hospital Wing after the attack in the Underground Chambers
He woke in the Hospital Wing, where Albus Dumbledore reassured him that Quirrell did not succeed at getting the Stone, and that the Stone had in fact, been destroyed. Dumbledore then explained the reason why Quirrell could not touch him was that because Harry's mother had died to save him, granting him protection against Voldemort.
At the End-of-Term Feast, after seemingly congratulating Slytherin on winning the House Cup, Dumbledore awarded Ron and Hermione fifty points, Harry sixty points, and Neville ten, which allowed them to win the cup.
Harry's second year in 1992 started out badly and gradually got worse. Throughout the preceding summer, the Dursleys became so fearful of his newly discovered magical abilities that they locked away all of his school supplies immediately after his return home to them. They even went as far as to ban him from saying words pertaining or related to magic in general, as evident to Harry getting reprimanded by Uncle Vernon for saying the word "magic" at the breakfast table one day.
This, however, did not stop Harry from exploiting their paranoia in order to have quiet time alone, such as taunting Dudley with made-up magical incantations (like Jiggery Pokery, Hocus Pocus, and Squiggly wiggly) whenever the latter teased him. Furthermore, he had no contact with any of his friends nor any news from the wizarding world, and Hedwig took to making noise out of boredom from being padlocked in her cage.
Harry in the garden at 4 Privet Drive
On 31 July (Harry's twelfth birthday), Harry felt very lonely from receiving no letters from his friends. Dudley taunted him stating "Who would want to be friends with you?" The Dursleys seemed to have forgotten his birthday too, for they were too busy preparing for a dinner party with a client of Vernon's at work. The sight of the hedge supposedly staring back startled Harry, but Dudley Dursley came over to bother him as the eyes vanished. Harry tried to scare his cousin away by pretending the use of incantations would set the hedge on fire. Petunia then threatened him with a soapy pan and tasked him with a list of chores to keep him out of her way until Vernon and Dudley returned home from buying dinner jackets.
Dobby introducing himself to Harry
When he was sent up to his bedroom later that evening for the dinner party, he found a house-elf named Dobby waited on his bed to warn him against returning to Hogwarts, as it meant putting himself in great danger. He tried to tell Dobby that Hogwarts was his home and where he belonged. The elf then revealed that he prevented the direct deliverance of the mail from Harry's friends and promised to give the letters back when Harry complied with the warning.
This bargain failed as well, so Dobby crashed the dinner party downstairs via a Hover Charm on Petunia's homemade masterpiece of pudding, which splattered everywhere when the spell was lifted, and disappeared. The mess left behind was thus blamed on Harry, who received an official warning from the Ministry of Magic about using magic outside school. Taking advantage of this incident and using it as a means to suppress the magical blood in their nephew, the Dursleys locked him in his room with bars on his window to prevent him from returning to Hogwarts as punishment.
Fred, George, and Ron rescuing Harry from the Dursleys with the use of a Flying Ford Anglia
Three nights later, Harry was rescued from his imprisonment by Ron, who was worried about not hearing from him all summer and flew with his older brothers Fred and George Weasley in a flying Ford Anglia belonging to their father Arthur Weasley, the Head of the Ministry's Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office, to break off the bars on Harry's window and help him retrieve his school things. Hedwig's screeches soon alerted the Dursleys of the getaway, but they were unable to do anything as the car flew off with Harry in tow. During the flight to the Weasley family's home the Burrow, Harry told Ron and the twins about Dobby's warning, which Fred and George concluded must have been part of a joke from Draco Malfoy, whose family was of great wealth.
They arrived at their destination early the next morning to find a worried-sick Molly Weasley waiting in the kitchen to punish her three sons for taking the vehicle without permission by having them and Harry (who volunteered) de-gnome the garden. Mr Weasley came home to discuss the results of his proposed Muggle Protection Act to the Ministry with his family, and was glad to meet Harry once introduced to him, despite his wife berating him for bewitching their car. As a generous measure, the Weasleys welcomed the young wizard into the family fold for the rest of the summer, though this made Ron's younger sister Ginny Weasley spend the entire day hiding in Harry's presence.
Harry in Knockturn Alley inside Borgin and Burkes
When a Hogwarts acceptance letter for Ginny arrived a week later, the Weasleys set out for Diagon Alley using the Floo Network eight days afterwards to buy some school supplies. Harry ended up at Borgin and Burkes in the adjacent Knockturn Alley. While inside the shop he was forced to hide in a Crushing Cabinet, as Draco Malfoy and his father Lucius Malfoy entered. Draco made many sulky remarks regarding Harry's talent in Quidditch.
The shopkeeper, Mr Borgin, was surprised that Mr Malfoy was only selling dark and illegally enchanted artefacts and not buying. Mr Malfoy was sealing the items before they could be confiscated by the raids on wizarding households that Mr Weasley was conducting as part of the Muggle Protection Act. Borgin expressed pity to the current decline of blood purity. Draco, on the other hand, had interest in a few of the items already on sale, including the Hand of Glory and a cursed opal necklace, and was stopped from approaching Harry's hiding place by his father.
Gilderoy Lockhart embarrassing Harry while in Flourish and Blotts
As soon as the Malfoys left, Harry was found leaving the shop himself by Rubeus Hagrid, who brought him out of Knockturn and into Diagon Alley's Flourish and Blotts, where the Weasleys were in line with Hermione and her parents for a book signing for the arrival of flamboyant but incompetent celebrity author Gilderoy Lockhart, who was recently appointed the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor at Hogwarts. When Lockhart saw Harry for the first time, he got excited and beckoned him up to the front, allowing the audience to take pictures of them together before giving Harry a set of his books.
Harry was too embarrassed by this publicity stunt, and gave the books to Ginny since he could afford a set of his own. Draco went over to congratulate him for being unable to avoid making the front page when walking into a bookstore, but then his father moved him aside to have a one-on-one argument with Mr Weasley over the latter's obsession with Muggles (finding an example of which in Hermione's parents, both Muggle dentists), provoking Weasley into lunging at him. Hagrid broke up the fight just in time, but not before the senior Malfoy slipped a diary into Ginny's cauldron of school books.
Harry and Ron Weasley crossing the magical barrier to Platform 9¾ only to find it blocked
When Harry and Ron tried to get onto Platform 9¾ to join Hermione and the rest of the Weasleys, the barrier mysteriously sealed, and they hit the wall. They missed the Hogwarts Express as a result, and decided to fly the car to Hogwarts, reasoning that they would not be seen due to the Invisibility Booster that Mr Weasley installed. However, the booster failed shortly after takeoff, and the car was spotted by several Muggles as they flew northward alongside the train.
Their day-long flight ended with them crashing into the Whomping Willow, instead of with the graceful landing they imagined. Ron's wand was inadvertently broken by the resulting impact as the gigantic tree started pounding the car in anger of being hit, but luckily for them, the battered Angila broke free from the branches to eject Harry and Ron out of the front seat with their belongings before driving off into the Forbidden Forest. Both boys were found by Professor Snape watching the Sorting Ceremony from the window. They were taken to his office, where they were given separate detentions by Albus Dumbledore and professor Minerva McGonagall. Ginny Weasley, meanwhile, was sorted into Gryffindor.
Harry helping Lockhart answer fan-mail as detention before he heard the voice inside the walls
The next day at breakfast, Ron received a Howler from his mother, who told him that he would be brought home if he broke another rule. The day only got worse when the Gryffindors attended their first Defence Against the Dark Arts class. Lockhart's teaching was a disaster, since the first thing he did was give them a pop quiz on himself and claimed the answers could be found in his books. He then let a cage of "freshly caught" Cornish Pixies loose and struggled to round them up, but ran to hide from them leaving his young pupils to save the day.
As the DADA lessons continued, Harry found himself having to act out scenes from Lockhart's books as he read them in class. Lockhart was in love with fame and kept bothering Harry, who had to help him answer his fan-mail while Ron had to polish the school's prizes and trophies. But he was not the only one who paid him extra attention: many first-year Gryffindors like Colin Creevey were star-struck by Harry, and Ginny had a huge crush on him that developed over the summer since she first saw the famous Potter on Platform 9¾ at the start and end of his first year. After hours of tedious work, Harry heard a disembodied, sinister voice, which Lockhart was unable to hear.
The trio attending Sir Nicolas's Deathday Party
In return for distracting Argus Filch just when he was about to give Harry severe punishment for something he did not do, Harry promised he would attend Nearly Headless Nick's Death-day Party on Hallowe'en. He did this as a favour in order to help boost Nick's reputation, so that he might achieve his desire of joining the Headless Hunt. He brought Ron and Hermione along, as well. Hermione was excited at the prospect of attending the event, as most living beings have not been to a Deathday Party. Ron on the other hand was not excited at attending the event.
The writing on the wall and the petrified form of Mrs Norris
The event was dismal and dreary. The party entailed a candlelit dinner of rancid, mouldy food, the smell of which caused all three to gag. Harry knew the reason for this was the claim that a ghost can "almost taste" seriously spoiled food. Sir Nicolas was deeply touched that the three students put in an appearance, in part because it gave him a certain status in the eyes of his fellow deceased. But the three of them quickly grew tired of the ghostly party and returned to the Great Hall. Before they got to the Hallowe'en feast, Harry heard the voice (which Ron and Hermione also could not hear). He followed it to the second floor where he found the bathroom flooded and Mrs Norris, Filch's cat, petrified — coupled with a message on the wall.
Filch became distraught and threatened Harry, as he mistakenly believed Harry to be the culprit. Filch and Snape then tried to get Harry in trouble for this, but Dumbledore said that it was powerful dark magic that no second year student could perform. They decided that Sprout's mandrakes would be used, once they were mature enough, to create a draught capable of reviving Mrs Norris. This occurrence left the students and staff with a sense of dread and worry, as many believed that the writing on the wall was just the beginning.
Professor Binns telling his students the legend of the Chamber of Secrets
Hermione wanted to research the Chamber of Secrets, so she talked History of Magic Professor Cuthbert Binns into telling the class about its origin. To begin the story, Binns explained that it all started with the founding of Hogwarts itself around 990 A.D., at the hands of two of the greatest wizards and two of the greatest witches of the age: Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw, and Salazar Slytherin. But Slytherin got into an argument with the other founders about whether Muggle-borns should be admitted and, when the rift grew too large between him and Gryffindor, he left the school.
According to legend, he built a going-away present to the school in the form of a secret chamber that could only be opened by his true heir. This "Chamber of Secrets" allegedly contained a monster that, once released, would purge the school of all Muggle-borns. Professor Binns unsuccessfully tried to assure the class that the Chamber did not actually exist and that the school had been searched many times in vain.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione decided that the heir was probably Draco Malfoy. To try to prove it, Hermione proposed to use the Polyjuice Potion, which can change one's appearance into somebody else's for an hour. Hermione warned that the potion would take a month to brew, supposing they gathered all the necessary ingredients (one of which could only be found in Professor Snape's private inventory) and managed to keep it a secret.
Harry playing against Draco Malfoy in the opening match of the season
During the month that it took the Polyjuice Potion to brew, a Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Slytherin took place. Draco Malfoy had been made Slytherin's new Seeker, on the merit of his father's generous contribution to the team: a set of Nimbus 2001 brooms. During the match one of the Bludgers took after Harry and focused completely on him. Malfoy lost no time in making fun of the manoeuvres Harry had to perform in order to avoid the Bludger. Since Bludgers were supposed to attack each and every player, the crowd soon realised that this Bludger had been tampered with.
Harry still managed to catch the Snitch and Gryffindor won. He caught it right out from under Malfoy's nose, who was more focused on taunting Harry then looking for the Snitch. However, the Bludger broke his arm, and Lockhart, in his attempt to fix it, removed all of the bones instead. Madam Pomfrey gave Harry a potion called Skele-Gro to counter this, and he was forced to stay in the Hospital Wing overnight.
Dobby and Harry in the Hospital Wing, after Harry injured his right arm during a Quidditch match
During that night, Dobby visited Harry and revealed that it was he who made the Bludger chase after Harry and was also responsible for the barrier of platform 9¾ not letting him in. Dobby did this in hopes of Harry leaving or never arriving at Hogwarts. This was a misguided attempt to protect Harry from the monster inside the chamber. Dobby proceeded to ask Harry to leave the school, something he refused to do. He also revealed that the Chamber of Secrets had been opened before and immediately punished himself, as he was not supposed to reveal anything. After Dobby disappeared, Dumbledore, McGonagall, and Madam Pomfrey entered with Colin Creevey, who had apparently been petrified. He was found with a camera containing film that had been burnt to the melting point.
Meeting of the Duelling club, where Harry and Draco participated in a practice duel
Harry signed up for a Duelling Club, which was (to Harry's great displeasure) taught by his two least favourite teachers: Lockhart and Snape. The event was scheduled to take place in the Great Hall. During the club's first meeting Lockhart demonstrated an ineptitude. He was successfully disarmed by Snape and floundered throughout the entire practice duel. Also during a practice battle in the first meeting, Draco Malfoy conjured a snake to attack Harry. Malfoy conjured this snake via instructions from Snape. Lockhart tried to banish it, but all he managed was to set it loose on the students.
Harry saw that the snake was rapidly advancing on a Muggle-born student and Hufflepuff named Justin Finch-Fletchley (who had introduced himself to Harry before this incident) and instinctively told it to stop, which — to Harry's great surprise — it did. The others students were less than ecstatic about this development, however. All they saw was Harry speaking Parseltongue, the language of snakes, and became afraid. Since they could not understand it, it seemed to them that he was egging the snake on.
It turned out that Parseltongue was a very rare gift that was closely associated with Salazar Slytherin. This was something Slytherin was famous for, hence why the symbol of Slytherin house is a serpent. Due to this, Harry became the number one suspect among students for being the heir of Slytherin. Hermione even told him that since Salazar Slytherin lived so long ago, he might actually be. His ability to speak Parseltongue also caused the student body to spread vicious rumours about him. They claimed that he could not be a decent wizard, since he could speak to snakes.
Harry meeting Fawkes for the first time after finding a petrified Justin
Seconds after leaving a conversation with Hagrid, Harry ran into a petrified Justin Finch-Fletchley and a black, smoking Nearly-Headless Nick. Peeves alerted the whole school, and a Hufflepuff called Ernie Macmillan claimed that Harry had been caught red-handed. For the first time, Harry was taken to Dumbledore's office, and there he witnessed Fawkes — Dumbledore's phoenix — bursting into ashes and being reborn. Dumbledore says that he did not believe Harry to be behind the attacks, a belief reinforced by Hagrid backing Harry's alibi, but a large portion of the school was sure that Harry was Slytherin's heir.
The trio brewing Polyjuice Potion in an attempt to gain information from Draco Malfoy, disguised as Slytherins
Harry, Ron, and Hermione all signed up to remain at the school during Christmas, since Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had done so as well. This gave them the perfect opportunity to use their Polyjuice potion. When Christmas arrived they drugged Crabbe and Goyle via chocolate cakes, took their hairs and assumed their forms. Hermione tried to use a hair she thought belonged to Millicent Bulstrode, but it was actually her cat's and Hermione was transformed into a hybrid. Hermione was forced to spend a few weeks in the Hospital Wing.
Posing as Crabbe and Goyle, Harry and Ron interrogated an unsuspecting Malfoy and discovered that Draco was not the Heir of Slytherin. They also heard that the last time the Chamber was opened, a Muggle-born girl died and whoever was responsible was expelled. During the interrogation Malfoy also mentioned Dumbledore and Harry. He relayed his negative opinion of them, stating that Dumbledore was the worst thing to happen to Hogwarts. Malfoy also mentioned his father's secret stash of illegal artefacts that was kept within Malfoy Manor.
The trio discussing possible theories behind Tom Riddle's mysterious diary
Weeks later, Ron and Harry overheard Argus Filch complaining about his workload and leaving. They arrive at Myrtle Warren's bathroom to find it flooded. A sulking ghost, Myrtle explained that she had flooded it because somebody threw a diary at her. Harry picked it up; it turned out to have belonged to a T.M. Riddle and appeared to be completely blank. Ron remembered from his detention that Riddle had won an award for special service to the school fifty years before. Hermione deduced that since this coincided with the last time the Chamber was opened, Tom Riddle might have received his prize for catching whoever was responsible for the attacks back then. Even though all attempts to extract information from the diary failed, Harry felt a strange compulsion to keep it.
On Valentine's Day, Ron and Harry were dismayed to learn that Lockhart had spread dwarves dressed as cupids throughout the school to receive and deliver Valentines. One cupid-dwarf managed to deliver one to Harry. While struggling to avoid him, the embarrassed Harry tripped and fell, spilling ink all over the contents of his bag. Ginny noticed the diary and assumed a horrified expression.
Later, Harry realised that even though the ink was spilled all over the diary, it was not stained at all. He tried writing to the diary and, to his surprise, the diary — or rather T.M. Riddle — began to write back. Riddle explained that he was the one who caught the person who opened the Chamber of Secrets the last time, and he could show Harry what happened. Harry agreed and got sucked into a "recording" of Riddle's memory in 1943.
Diary Riddle showing Harry a selected memory of his
Harry witnessed the school's previous headmaster, Armando Dippet, informing Riddle that the school would be closed and Riddle, apprehensive of this, catching Rubeus Hagrid fiddling with a large spider in a box. Riddle reported Hagrid to Dippet. During the memory, Harry also learned that Riddle was an orphan that did not want to go back to the orphanage, and his full name was Tom Marvolo Riddle. Having seen this, Harry wondered whether Hagrid was the one who opened the Chamber fifty years before and whether he was responsible this time. This was exactly what Riddle wanted.
Harry's possessions were ransacked by a fellow Gryffindor in search of Tom Riddle's diary
Harry, Ron, and Hermione decided not to ask Hagrid about it, hoping that the attacks had stopped — and indeed, almost four months after the attack on Justin and Nearly-Headless Nick, the disembodied voice kept quiet and the attacks seemed to have ceased. However, odd things kept happening: Harry returned to his dormitory one day to find it a mess. Ron deduced that somebody had been looking for something, and Harry eventually noticed that Tom Riddle's diary was gone. This greatly befuddled them, seeing as only a Gryffindor could know the password to enter the dormitory.
The next day, the scheduled Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Hufflepuff was cancelled due to yet another attack and Harry heard the voice again. This time, Minerva McGonagall called for Harry and Ron personally, and led them to the Hospital Wing, where they saw Hermione petrified. She was found near the library with a Ravenclaw prefect, inexplicably holding a small, circular mirror. This removed Harry as a suspect in the eyes of many of the students, as they knew he would never harm Hermione. Some students even offered him an apology, such as Ernie Macmillan.
Harry and Ron visiting Hagrid right before he was taken to Azkaban
Harry and Ron decided they now must talk to Hagrid. With the now constant supervision on students, this was not easy, but they managed to do it by using Harry's Invisibility Cloak. When they reach Hagrid's cabin, Harry and Ron managed to hide just before Dumbledore and Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge arrived at the scene. Fudge announced that Hagrid, who to the best of his knowledge opened the Chamber of Secrets the last time, would be sent to wizard prison Azkaban as a precaution.
They were shortly joined by Lucius Malfoy, who declared that he and the other Hogwarts governors unanimously voted to suspend Dumbledore, despite the obvious logic that this would only worsen the situation. Both Hagrid and Dumbledore gave last words, but Hagrid covertly suggested to Harry and Ron that if they want the truth, they should "follow the spiders", and Dumbledore said that he would only truly have left the school when none there remained loyal to him. He also stressed that if anybody at Hogwarts needed help, it would always be available.
Harry and Ron decided to follow the spiders as per Hagrid's advice. Walking along the trails of the spiders, which were strangely all fleeing Hogwarts, they went into the Forbidden Forest. Even though Ron was deeply arachnophobic, the fact that Hermione had been petrified and that they may be able to help through this investigation gave him the willpower to go along anyway. There, they encountered the Ford Anglia, which had apparently taken to driving through the forest like some sort of wild animal.
Harry and Ron following the spiders, which led them to Aragog
They eventually meet Aragog, a giant spider which had been the monster that Hagrid had been "caught" setting on other students fifty years ago. Aragog explained that Hagrid was innocent, but rather than letting Harry and Ron go, he decided to leave them as dinner for his children. Mr Weasley's Ford Anglia came blasting through the layers of spiders, however, and assisted the boys' escape.
After this, Harry and Ron felt that they had reached dead ends everywhere, until one possible last hope occurred to them. Aragog said the monster's last victim died in a bathroom, and it occurred to Harry that Myrtle Warren might have been that victim. Of course, with the school under such security, it would be almost impossible to sneak in the girls' bathroom near where the first attack occurred.
Later that same day, Harry and Ron managed to trick Lockhart — who was leading them to their next class — into letting them go by stroking his ego. Just as they patted themselves on the back, they were caught by Professor McGonagall, and Harry had to make up an excuse — they were going to see Hermione in the Hospital Wing, where visitors were now barred. They now had to go along to make their story appear convincing, but rather than simply hanging around Hermione's petrified form, this time Harry noticed a piece of paper tightly clutched in her hand.
Hermione Granger and the other petrified students being visited by Harry and Ron
This piece of paper revealed what Hermione had found out before she was attacked. She discovered, based on strong circumstantial evidence, that the monster in the Chamber of Secrets was a Basilisk (a giant slithering serpent capable of feeding on human and animal aura to cause petrifaction and death to anyone near it via direct eye contact), which explained why only Harry could hear it. But none of its victims died because they did not look directly at its gaze: Colin Creevey saw it through his camera, Justin Finch-Fletchley saw it through Nearly-Headless Nick (who was already dead), Mrs Norris saw its reflection in the waters from the flooded bathroom, and Hermione used a mirror to look around corners after figuring things out. There was also a note about how spiders feared the Basilisk (which explained them fleeing Hogwarts) and the rooster's call being potentially fatal to it (which explained Hagrid's roosters having been mysteriously killed during the year). This summed up the year's events.
The message written on the wall after Ginevra Weasley was taken into the Chamber of Secrets
On the note was also scribbled a single word, "pipes", which meant that the serpent moved around through the plumbing. Having solved the mystery, Harry and Ron decided to go to the staff room and report to the teachers. When they got there, they overheard the teachers talking about another attack that had occurred. Harry and Ron decided to hide to hear more details, and learning that Ginny had been kidnapped and the heir of Slytherin had left another message under the previous one: Harry and Ron also heard that Hogwarts would be closed the following day. The teachers then forced Lockhart to deal with the monster, as he had been claiming that he could handle whatever was responsible for the attacks, irritating the rest of the staff to no end. Looking very crestfallen, he left for his room.
That night, Harry and Ron felt utterly useless and helpless, until it occurred to Harry that if the serpent used the plumbing to get around and the last time the chamber was opened a girl died, then the chamber entrance must be in the bathroom that Myrtle Warren haunted. Harry and Ron decided that if Lockhart was going to deal with the monster, they might as well tell him what they knew. They went to his room, only to find him frantically packing, having decided to run away. When questioned on why such a talented wizard as himself was leaving, Lockhart admitted that he was a fraud and that he put Memory Charms on the people who really did the things that he claimed to have done in his books.
Harry, Ron, and Lockhart discovering the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets
He then attempted to put a memory charm on Harry and Ron as well. They managed to disarm him and under wand threats took him to Myrtle Warren's bathroom. Harry then asked Moaning Myrtle about her death, which she happily explained. She stated that the last thing she saw was a pair of enormous eyes by one of the sinks. This sink incidentally had a tap that had never worked. Harry came to the conclusion that the tap can only be opened by the use of Parseltongue. He found a snake carved on the tap and then opened the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets.
The entrance into the main section of the chamber
Harry, Ron, and Lockhart slid down a large pipe and found themselves in maze-like tunnels far under the school. Down there, they encountered a snake skin left by the Basilisk. Just then, Lockhart feigned fainting and stole Ron's wand. Victoriously proclaiming that he would erase Harry and Ron's memories and tell everybody that they lost their sanity at the sight of Ginny's mangled body, Lockhart attempted a spell. Ron's broken wand caused the charm to backfire, erasing Lockhart's memory and causing a portion of the ceiling to cave in. This trapped Harry in the direction of the chamber and Ron in the direction of the castle. Ron had no choice but to stay behind and clear a path through the rocks while Harry continued in search of Ginny. Harry then encountered a wall with stone snakes on it, opened it by speaking Parseltongue, and entered the Chamber itself.
Harry in the entrance chamber of the Chamber of Secrets
Inside, he found Ginny lying on the ground, pale and cold. He dropped his wand and ran to her, trying to get a response from her, but to no avail. He then saw Tom Riddle smiling at him and holding Harry's wand. Riddle explained his presence in the present by revealing that he was a memory, which had been preserved in his diary for fifty years.
He then explained what had happened. Riddle had opened the Chamber of Secrets fifty years ago and planned to purge the school of Muggle-borns and half-bloods; however, when he learned that the school was going to close down due to the attacks and that Dumbledore (then the Transfiguration teacher) was keeping a closer and closer watch on him, he had no choice but to cease the attacks and frame Hagrid for doing it. Not wanting to waste all the years he had spent on figuring out where the Chamber was and how to get to it, he left behind a diary containing the memory of his sixteen-year-old self in hopes that it would, one day, fall into the hands of an unsuspecting victim who would help him finish his work.
Harry and an unconscious Ginny in the main chamber, with Riddle watching
Ginny had been writing in the diary all year. Riddle had written back sympathetically and Ginny grew to confess her fears, hopes, and feelings to him. She essentially poured some of her soul into him, which was exactly what he wanted. He gradually grew more powerful and eventually managed to pour some of his soul back into her, possessing her and using her body to open the chamber and launch the new series of attacks.
However, Ginny eventually became suspicious of the diary and decided to get rid of it by flushing it down the toilet in Myrtle Warren's bathroom. This is when Harry found it. When Ginny saw Harry with the diary on Valentine's Day, she panicked and worried that Riddle had told all of her secrets to Harry, so she stole it back from Harry's dormitory. It began taking control of her again, but this time with the intention of killing Harry, so he had Ginny write her own farewell on the wall and come down to wait, luring Harry to the rescue and, consequently, his doom.
I am Lord Voldemort
Riddle then asked how Harry managed to defeat the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort as a mere baby. Harry asks Riddle why he cares, as Voldemort existed after his time. Riddle replies that Voldemort was his "past, present and future." He then wrote his name in the air with Harry's wand: TOM MARVOLO RIDDLE. Riddle then waved the wand and the letters rearrange themselves into I AM LORD VOLDEMORT. Needless to say, this meant that Riddle grew up to become Lord Voldemort. Riddle then revealed he was, in fact, a half-blood, and his mother had named him Tom after his Muggle father and Marvolo after his wizard grandfather, a descendant of Salazar Slytherin. He scrambled his "filthy Muggle father's name" to create a new one, which he knew that people would fear when he became the most powerful wizard in the world.
Harry retorted that he must be mistaken, because the greatest wizard in the world, as everybody knew, was not Voldemort, but Dumbledore. Even when Voldemort was at the peak of his power, he was afraid of Dumbledore, and now he was barely alive. Riddle angrily answered that Dumbledore had been driven out the castle by the mere memory of him. Harry yelled that Dumbledore was not as gone as Riddle seemed to believe. In this display of loyalty, he summoned Fawkes the phoenix to him, who also brought with him the Sorting Hat, both assets that Riddle deems extremely useless.
Harry slaying Slytherin's Basilisk with the Sword of Gryffindor
Riddle then summoned the Basilisk and commanded it to kill Harry. However, Fawkes was not as defenceless as one might initially think, and pecked out the Basilisk's eyes, thus preventing its gaze from killing. The Basilisk could still smell Harry, however, and remained very dangerous; in desperation, Harry put on the Sorting Hat, wishing against hope for help. Instead of an answer, Harry had a heavy sword with a hilt embedded with rubies fall on his head from inside the hat. After several missed strikes from the blinded Basilisk, Harry plunged the sword into the roof of its mouth, killing it. However, one of its poisonous fangs sank into his arm, injecting a deadly poison. While Riddle gloated over his "win", Fawkes proceeded to cry on the wound and Harry was instantly cured.
Harry stabbing Tom Riddle's diary with a Basilisk fang (unknowingly destroying one of Voldemort's Horcruxes)
Harry then stabbed the diary three times with the Basilisk fang to rid himself of Riddle, unknowingly destroying one of Voldemort's Horcruxes in the process. Riddle's manifestation exploded, therefore foiling his attempt to return to life. Ink began pouring out of the book and the memory of Riddle faded out of existence; Ginny immediately stirred and woke up, quite distraught. Harry and Ginny travelled back through the Chamber to find Ron and Lockhart, who had no idea of who or where he was.
Harry, Ron, Ginny, and Lockhart grabbed onto Fawkes and flew out of the Chamber (another phoenix specialty). They returned to the castle to find Dumbledore, McGonagall, Arthur and Molly Weasley, who were delighted to see them alive. Harry worried that Ginny would get blamed for being the person behind the attacks, but to his great relief, Dumbledore rightly deduced that Voldemort was the culprit. After Ginny left to get a much-needed rest, Harry and Ron both received 200 house points each for Gryffindor and both got an Award for Special Services to the school. Dumbledore then gave Ron Hagrid's release paper for him to mail and then spoke with Harry alone.
Harry and Dumbledore talking after Harry slayed the Basilisk in the chamber
Harry expressed his concern that he belonged in Slytherin. Dumbledore revealed that Voldemort transferred some of his powers to Harry when he gave him his scar, explaining his ability to speak Parseltongue. He asked Harry why he thought the Sorting Hat put him in Gryffindor if he had so many Slytherin qualities, and Harry admitted that the only reason it did was because he had asked it to. Dumbledore confirmed this and told Harry that "it is our choices, rather than our abilities, that reveal who we truly are". He also commended Harry for showing him real loyalty in the Chamber, for only that could have called Fawkes to his aid. He pointed out to the sword Harry had drawn out of the hat — Harry now noticed it had Godric Gryffindor's name on it. Dumbledore said that only a true Gryffindor would be able to draw it out.
Lucius Malfoy barged into Dumbledore's office, outraged that Dumbledore had returned to the school after being dismissed. Dumbledore calmly responded that the governors had asked him to return once they heard that Arthur Weasley's daughter was attacked. They apparently had been blackmailed by Lucius to vote for Dumbledore's dismissal in the first place on pain of Lucius cursing their families. Dobby followed Lucius into the room, thus showing that his masters were the Malfoys.
Harry freeing Dobby from his enslavement
Dumbledore and Malfoy had a calm and venomous interchange (respectively), during which Dumbledore and Harry (with the help of Dobby's unspoken hints) essentially exposed Lucius sneaking Riddle's diary (one of his illegal artefacts) into Ginny's school things during the fight with Arthur at Flourish and Blotts. This was supposed to frame Ginny for the attacks, with heavy implications on the Muggle Protection Act that Arthur Weasley had been suggesting. Malfoy dared Dumbledore to prove his accusation, and while the Headmaster has insufficient evidence to do that, he cautioned Malfoy against orchestrating further such plots.
Knowing that a master could release his house-elf by giving them some clothes, Harry tricked Malfoy into freeing Dobby by giving Malfoy one of his own socks, which he promptly threw away, and was caught by Dobby. After discovering Harry's trick, Malfoy attempted to kill Harry, only to be stopped by Dobby. Dobby thanked Harry dearly for freeing him and left. At the ending feast, Dumbledore announced his school treat of cancelling all final exams (much to Hermione's dismay) and that Lockhart would not return to Hogwarts.
Harry in his bedroom reading a Daily Prophet article
Harry's third year in 1993 started out almost as bad as the year prior, and gradually got depressing. Throughout the preceding summer, the Dursleys became fearful of his magical abilities getting exposed that they banned him from talking to the neighbours immediately after his return home to them. They even went as far as punishing him for giving their phone number to his friends, as evident to Harry getting reprimanded by Uncle Vernon when the latter received a call from Ron.
This, however, did not stop Harry from studying magic every night by sneaking his school supplies and hiding them in his room one night while Aunt Petunia and Dudley were out admiring Vernon's new company car. Furthermore, he had little contact with his friends nor any news from the wizarding world since the phone incident, but Hedwig was allowed out of her padlocked cage because the Dursleys could no longer take the noise she made in boredom.
On 31 July (Harry's thirteenth birthday), which might have made the Dursleys forget about his birthday, for they were too busy preparing for a visit from Aunt Marge. The sight of a copy of the Daily Prophet among the mail from Errol interested Harry, as it said that Ron had returned from a trip to Egypt to visit his oldest brother Bill Weasley (a Curse-Breaker of Gringotts) for which Arthur Weasley paid using seven hundred galleons he won in the Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw. The article also showcased a picture of the Weasleys standing in front of a pyramid. It was there that Ron bought Harry the most fascinating present: a Sneakoscope, which was sold for tourists. He also received birthday presents from Hermione and Hagrid as well.
An enraged Harry inflating Marge Dursley
When his Hogsmeade permission form was delivered, Harry was worried of the trouble he'll probably go through in order to persuade his aunt or uncle to sign it. They agreed to do so the next morning, but only if he behaved during Marge's visit. However, Marge began insulting the memory of Harry's mother at the dinner table three days later, describing her as a "bad egg" who ran off with a "scoundrel" and left the Dursleys with Harry as the "result in front of them". Harry lost his temper to this, inadvertently making Marge's wine glass explode.
The insults transitioned to his father on the final day of her visit, making him very upset to such extent that he ended up losing all control of his magic powers and accidentally inflated her with the Inflating Charm. Vernon ordered his nephew to put Marge back the way she was, but Harry said no and instead packed up his school things and left the house. He fled out of fear of being expelled from Hogwarts by the Ministry of Magic, for using underage magic outside school, something he had already been warned about.
Later that night, Harry was picked up off the curb of Magnolia Crescent by the triple-decker wizard transport the Knight Bus, which was sent to drive him as two members of the Ministry's Accidental Magic Reversal Squad were dispatched to deflate and Obliviate Marge. During the ride to the Leaky Cauldron, the bus' conductor Stan Shunpike gave him a copy of the Daily Prophet with its front page story being about the Ministry's continuing struggle to recapture Sirius Black, a convicted Voldemort supporter who recently escaped from the wizard prison Azkaban (the first person ever to have done so) after spending twelve years there for the mass-murder of thirteen people with a single Blasting Curse.
Minister Cornelius Fudge personally seeing that Harry was safe
They arrived at their destination to find a relieved-looking Cornelius Fudge waiting at the restaurant door to welcome Harry in for a meeting. To Harry's relief though, the Minister for Magic took no action against him since accidental uses of magic did not count as a violation to the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery, but described the choice of running away as very irresponsible despite it putting the Ministry in a right flap. As a generous measure, Fudge booked the young wizard a room in the Leaky Cauldron Inn for the rest of the summer, though this made something about Fudge's tone spike Harry's suspicion.
When finished with his exploration of Diagon Alley for school supplies three weeks later, Harry found Ron and Hermione looking all over for him at Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlour four days afterwards while the Weasleys were booking a room at the inn. They already heard of his inflation of Marge, and while Ron thought it funny, Hermione was amazed to learn that Harry was not expelled and wondered why Fudge really let him off the hook. Ron, however, was more concerned for his pet rat Scabbers, who was looking very ill since he was brought back from Egypt (possibly due to the stress of the trip), so he and Harry went over to the Magical Menagerie to buy a bottle of rat tonic for him.
Crookshanks in Magical Menagerie right before being purchased by Hermione
While in Diagon Alley, Harry found it very interesting to learn from the saleswoman behind the counter that most rats have an expected life span of three years. He found this odd, since Scabbers originally belonged to Ron's older brother Percy Weasley. Thus Scabbers lived much longer than Ron could remember, at least 12 years. As Ron declined the Saleswoman's offer to buy a sleek black rat as a replacement, a half-Kneazle cat named Crookshanks tried to attack Scabbers, who scurried away to hide in a wastepaper bin outside Quality Quidditch Supplies with his owner and Harry following. Hermione spent the early birthday money from her parents to buy the tonic and Crookshanks, much to Ron's displeasure.
Arthur Weasley warning Harry of the danger that he was possibly in
When the rat tonic was misplaced somewhere around the Leaky Cauldron salon later that night, Harry volunteered to search for it there while Ron was busy helping Percy search for his new Head Boy badge in their room at the inn. But the conversation which a worried Molly Weasley was having with her husband soon caught his attention, so Harry listened to what they were saying about Sirius Black's escape, and what connection it had to Harry himself. According to Mr Weasley, when Voldemort met his downfall, Black lost everything he hoped to gain, but to that day he remained a faithful servant to the Dark Lord's cause.
The Ministry feared that the killer's motive was to use Harry to return his master to full strength, as evident to the report from Fudge's inspection of Azkaban saying that Black was repeatedly muttering "He's at Hogwarts" in his sleep. This shook Harry a little to the realisation that Fudge let him go because he was relieved to see Harry all right after running away. Though he was convinced that Hogwarts was a a safe haven because of the presence of Albus Dumbledore, the senior Weasleys agreed that Black could break into the school if he could break out of his Azkaban.
A Dementor entering the trio, Neville, and Ginny's compartment
When they got onto Platform 9¾, Mr Weasley moved Harry aside to tell him not to go looking for Black, but Harry claimed that he would never look for someone who wanted him killed. He, Ron, and Hermione found only one empty compartment on the Hogwarts Express, but had to share with a friend of Harry's parents, Remus Lupin, who was recently appointed Hogwarts' new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor.
As Harry told his friends of what he heard about Black coming after him until, the train stopped almost halfway to Hogwarts, letting one of the Dementors (a gliding wraith capable of feeding on human happiness to cause depression and madness to anyone near it via mental energy draining) used as the Azkaban guards aboard to determine if Black himself was hiding on it. At some point Ginny and Neville entered the trio's compartment, as the presence of the Dementors frightened them. Lupin managed to drive the Dementor off with a disguised Patronus.
A Dementor sucking all the happiness out of Harry
Only Harry and Ginny Weasley were the most affected by the creature (since he had the worst past involving the night Voldemort killed his parents, and she had the worst experience of being under the control of the sentient memory within Voldemort's old school diary the year before), and were about to fall victim to its fatal kiss when Lupin cast a Patronus Charm which drove it away. Harry fainted to the sound of his mother screaming, but recovered when Lupin gave him a piece of chocolate to feel better and sent a letter ahead to Professor Minerva McGonagall saying he was ill.
Harry's first Divination lesson involving tea leaves
Lessons started the next day. Harry, Ron and Hermione headed to the North Tower for their first Divination lesson. They met Sybill Trelawney, who predicted future events using tea leaves. Harry saw a black dog in his tea cup, which Trelawney identified as the Grim, the omen of death. This worried Harry, as he remembered the black dog he saw when he ran away. While in Transfiguration, Professor Minerva McGonagall assured Harry that Trelawney had predicted the deaths of a number of students, none of whom have died.
Harry's first Care of Magical Creatures lessons involving hippogriffs
For one, Hermione was taking nearly twice as many classes, including some taught at the same time. While Lupin's lessons were enjoyable, Hagrid's soon became dreary. In their Care of Magical Creatures lesson, Hagrid taught them about Hippogriffs. Although initially nervous, Harry successfully approached and rode a grey hippogriff named Buckbeak. During the first lesson, Draco Malfoy deliberately provoked the Buckbeak into attacking him.
This in turn cased Draco to tell his father of the provoked attack. Lucius Malfoy, then filed a complaint against Hagrid. Lucius filed this complaint with the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, more specifically the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. Meanwhile, tensions grew between Hermione and Ron over Crookshanks's continuing habit of trying to harm Scabbers.
Lupin jumping in front of Harry's Boggart which had transformed into a Dementor
Harry learnt that Black had been sighted near Hogwarts. During a Potions lesson, Malfoy hinted that Black may be connected to Harry's past. In Defence Against the Dark Arts, Lupin taught the third-years about Boggarts, shape-shifters that took the shape of a person's worst fear. The class then took on the Boggart, forcing it to assume a shape they find amusing. When it came to Harry's turn he was sure the Boggart would turn into a Dementor but Lupin jumped in and repeled the Boggart for him. Faced by Lupin, the Boggart took the shape of a bright glowing orb. Harry was disappointed that Lupin did not let him fight the Boggart, thinking that Lupin felt he was not up to the task.
In October, the Gryffindor Quidditch team practised hard for the upcoming Quidditch season, especially since this was their team captain Oliver Wood's final year at Hogwarts. Oliver believed that despite the misfortune which occurred during the previous two years their team should be able to win the Quidditch Cup before he graduates. Third-years were also visiting Hogsmeade on Hallowe'en, and only Harry was not allowed, because his uncle did not sign his permission form. Harry spent the day in Lupin's office, drinking tea with him. Lupin told him that he did not let Harry face the Boggart because he did not want the Boggart to become Lord Voldemort. Shortly afterwards, Snape appeared with a mysterious potion for Lupin. Lupin claimed to simply have an illness, and that he was aided by the potion.
Fat Lady portrait slashed by Sirius Black
A few hours later, Ron and Hermione returned from Hogsmeade. They reached the portrait of the Fat Lady and saw that it was slashed and that the Fat Lady was gone. Using his Animagus form, Sirius was able to enter the castle undetected. He made his way unseen all the way up to the entrance of Gryffindor Tower and changed back to his true form. However, The Fat Lady would not let him in without the password. Frustrated, Black slashed her portrait and fled. Peeves revealed Black to be the attacker, and that he had seen the Fat Lady fleeing through other portraits. Albus Dumbledore, Percy Weasley, and Argus Filch then went to locate her.
During the last weekend before the holidays, while the eligible students visited Hogsmeade, Harry was yet again not able to go. To bring some Christmas cheer to Harry, Fred and George revealed that they knew secret passages in and out of Hogwarts. They gave Harry the Marauder's Map as a Christmas present and instructed him on how to use it. It showed Hogwarts' secret passages, corridors, classrooms, offices, common rooms, etc., as well as every person's location within the castle and the grounds.
Harry using the map to sneak off to Hogsmeade
Harry used the Marauder's Map to sneak into Hogsmeade. He then met Ron and Hermione in Honeydukes, where they were discussing what kind of sweets to get Harry. They visited the Three Broomsticks, a pub run by Madam Rosmerta. When Cornelius Fudge, Minerva McGonagall, Filius Flitwick, and Rubeus Hagrid arrived, Harry hide underneath their table to avoid being seen. Harry used a tunnel to sneak into Hogsmeade village.
While sneaking back into the school, he overheard a disturbing conversation that had a severe impact on his mental state. Sirius Black was his parents' best friend, and was his godfather and legal guardian. Black was the Potters' Secret Keeper and he allegedly divulged the Potters' secret whereabouts to Lord Voldemort and murdered their friend Peter Pettigrew, as well as twelve Muggle bystanders. Peter left a finger to prove that he had been killed with the twelve Muggles.
Harry receiving a Firebolt for Christmas that was shortly confiscated by McGonagall
After several Dementors approached Harry during a Quidditch match, causing him to faint and fall off his broomstick. Albus Dumbledore stopped Harry's fall, but his Nimbus 2000 flew into the Whomping Willow and was destroyed, much to Harry's dismay. At Christmas, Harry received a new, superb Firebolt broomstick, although Hermione suspected Black was the anonymous donor. She reported it to Professor Minerva McGonagall, who confiscated the broom for testing.
Harry and Ron were furious with Hermione and they stopped speaking to her. When the broom was returned some months later, the two boys tried to make up with her, but it went wrong when Ron discovered Scabbers was missing. Ron blamed Crookshanks because he found cat hairs and blood on his dormitory floor. The perceived loss of Scabbers upset Ron greatly, the twins and Harry were unable to cheer Ron up.
Lupin and Harry's anti-Dementor lessons, during which Harry produced an incorporeal Patronus
Harry started his lessons with Lupin. Lupin told Harry that the spell to drive off Dementors is called the Patronus Charm. Lupin then instructed him in how to cast one, and lets him practise on a Boggart. Harry failed to produce a Patronus at first. This, however, was to be expected; the Patronus Charm was well beyond O.W.L. standard. During his first lesson, Harry learned that Lupin was a friend of his father James during their days at Hogwarts, and that he  knew Sirius Black as well.
By February, Harry had became quite good at producing a Patronus after a few lessons, but did not master it entirely. At the end of a lesson, Lupin explained the concept of a Dementor's Kiss and revealed that it would be Black's punishment, as an article in the Daily Prophet confirmed that the Ministry gave the Dementors permission to use the Kiss on Black when they find him. While thinking about the horror of the punishment, Harry ran into McGonagall on his way back to Gryffindor Tower. McGonagall gave Harry back the Firebolt, which had been proven not to be jinxed, and suggested that he practise with it before the match.
Harry letting Ron ride his Firebolt around the Quidditch pitch
Harry met up with Ron and they decided to go make up with Hermione. Outside Gryffindor Tower, they bumped into Neville who was in trouble because he lost a list. After the pair let him in, Neville told Harry and Ron that he made a list of the passwords for Gryffindor Tower because Sir Cadogan was still changing them twice a day but somehow they got lost. Harry attempted to patch things up with Hermione but Scabbers disappeared after they arrived at Gryffindor Tower, ruining any chance for Ron and Hermione's reconciliation.
Harry winning the Quidditch Cup for Gryffindor
As March arrived, a new Quidditch match approached: Gryffindor vs. Ravenclaw. Harry spent the last practice session before the match getting used to his Firebolt. During the game, just as Harry was about to catch the Snitch, fourth-year Seeker Cho Chang screamed. Harry looked around and saw three Dementors in the stands. He reacted instantly, sending a full-fledged Patronus at the Dementors. Harry caught the Snitch before Cho Chang, which led to Gryffindor winning the match. Gryffindor would later play Slytherin and win the Quidditch Cup.
After Harry completed his Divination exam, Professor Trelawney entered a trance and predicted that the Dark Lord's servant would return to him that night. Harry and Ron finally made peace with Hermione, but the trio soon learned that Buckbeak would be executed. When they visited Hagrid to console him, Scabbers appeared, and Ron picked him up. Cornelius Fudge, Albus Dumbledore and the executioner were making their way to Hagrid's hut, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione made their way out the back door.
Sirius Black capturing Ron and dragging him to the Whomping Willow
As they were walking up the path, they thought they heard Buckbeak executed, when all of a sudden, Scabbers bit Ron, and Ron chased him to the Whomping Willow. A large dog attacked Ron and dragged him and Scabbers into a hole at the tree's base. Harry and Hermione followed, finding a tunnel leading to the Shrieking Shack. Inside, Harry confronted Sirius Black, who, as an unregistered, and therefore illegal, Animagus, could transform into an animal at will.
The trio encountering Sirius Black in the Shrieking Shack
Lupin, who spotted the group on the Marauder's Map, suddenly burst in and embraced his old friend Black. Harry, Ron and Hermione refused to believe that Pettigrew was alive, pointing out that he was murdered by Black. Black denied this, and Lupin convinced him to tell Harry the truth of what happened. Lupin told the story about his time at Hogwarts; he had been bitten as a child, and Dumbledore took precautions for his stay at Hogwarts, having the Shrieking Shack and the passage leading to it built to provide Lupin with a safe place to transform.The Whomping Willow was planted on the entrance to the tunnel to prevent anyone from running into the transformed Lupin. The rumours that the Hogsmeade residents started about the Shack being haunted by violent ghosts were allowed to spread to keep people from guessing that it was actually a werewolf making those sounds.
Eventually, Lupin's friends, Sirius, Pettigrew and James Potter, discovered Lupin's secret, and became Animagi to support him. Sirius became a dog to keep Lupin under control with James, and Pettigrew became a rat so he could disable the Willow by scurrying under its branches and touching a certain spot on its trunk. Lupin admitted that he has not told Dumbledore about Sirius being an Animagus, as it would have meant admitting that he had betrayed his trust and led three students into illegally becoming Animagi. He also revealed the reason for Snape's animosity towards him during the year: during their days at school, Sirius had played a near-fatal trick on Snape involving Lupin in his transformed form but James saved him. Snape thought both of them were involved with Sirius' trick. Just then, Snape arrived using Harry's Invisibility Cloak, which he had left at the foot of the Whomping Willow.
Sirius and Lupin forcing Pettigrew back into human form
Snape was knocked out by Harry, Ron and, Hermione who all tried to disarm Snape at the same time. Harry was sceptical, until Black and Lupin forced Pettigrew back into his human form. This came as a huge shock to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. It was especially shocking to Ron, as Scabbers had been his pet for the last three years and had slept in their dormitory. Black then explained he discovered that Pettigrew was still alive and escaped Azkaban to seek revenge, as well as to make sure that Pettigrew could not harm Harry. Harry stopped Black and Lupin from murdering Pettigrew, believing that his father would not have wanted his two best friends to become killers.
As the group headed back to the castle, the full moon rose, causing Lupin to turn into a werewolf. During the ensuing commotion, Pettigrew escaped, while Sirius turned into his dog form to protect the others from Lupin. Lupin fled, leaving Black badly injured. As Dementors moved in to attack Black, Harry saw a mysterious figure in the distance cast a powerful stag-shaped Patronus, scattering the vicious creatures. Harry became convinced it was his father, or at least his father's spirit, who produced the Patronus. Black was then captured and taken to the castle where the Dementors intended to suck out his soul.
Harry and Hermione using the Time-Turner in order to save Buckbeak and Sirius Black
Hermione revealed to Harry that she was entrusted with a time-travelling device, called a Time-Turner, which was how she was able to attend so many classes. Prompted by Dumbledore, she and Harry travelled three hours into the past, watching themselves go through the night's previous events. They freed Buckbeak and returned to the Whomping Willow. As the Dementors were about to attack the "other" Harry and Sirius, Harry realised that the mysterious figure he saw earlier was actually himself. He cast the powerful Patronus that repelled the dementors. Harry and Hermione freed Black, who escaped on Buckbeak, as they rushed back to where they were before. As they saw Dumbledore exiting the hospital wing, they completed their journey.
Harry and Hermione rescuing Sirius and Buckbeak
After Sirius was revealed to have once again escaped, Severus Snape burst into the hospital wing and blamed Harry, but left when he was unable to convince anyone without any proof. Fudge said he would remove the Dementors because they tried to perform their kiss on Harry. Draco Malfoy was furious that Buckbeak escaped, while Hagrid was ecstatic. Professor Lupin resigned after Snape "accidentally" revealed that he was a werewolf. Harry the previous nights events Harry visited Lupin in his office, during which the map was returned to him.
When Harry told Dumbledore about Professor Trelawney's prophecy, Dumbledore encouraged him to not feel guilty about letting Pettigrew live. On the train back, Harry received a letter from Sirius, telling him that he sent him the Firebolt, and included a letter giving Harry permission to visit Hogsmeade. The letter was delivered by a small minute owl, which Sirius gives to Ron as a replacement for Scabbers. The owl was later named Pigwidgeon by Ginny.
Harry woke up from a nightmare at the Dursleys' house on Privet Drive. He experienced a vivid dream, regarding Muggle Frank Bryce. Bryce had learned of Voldemort's plans to reward Pettigrew for his help in capturing Bertha Jorkins. Jorkins was a Ministry employee, who Voldemort extracted information from before murdering. Frank was eventually discovered by Voldemort's snake Nagini. The Dark Lord, unhappy that the elderly gardener was spying on him, cast the Killing Curse, ending the elderly gardener's life. After which Harry woke up with his scar hurting and considered writing to his friends and even Dumbledore, but eventually decided to write a letter to Sirius. He did not mention the dream, just that his scar was hurting and planned to send the letter once Hedwig returned.
Harry and others watching Bill and Charlie joust with tables at The Burrow
The next day, a letter from Mrs Weasley addressed to the Dursleys arrived and she asked if Harry could join Hermione and the Weasley family to go to the Quidditch World Cup final between Ireland and Bulgaria. The letter upset Vernon and he intentionally said no, but one mention of Sirius Black was enough to convince him to let Harry go. Harry immediately wrote back to Ron and on Sunday afternoon, the Weasleys attempted to use Floo powder to access the Dursley household. They did this unaware that the Dursleys had an electric fireplace, which resulted in Mr Weasley destroying half the sitting room. One of the twins purposely dropped a Ton-Tongue Toffee as a means of product testing, which Dudley ate. Things only got worse form that point forward and resulted in Vernon throwing figurines at Mr Weasley.
Harry attends the 1994 Quidditch World Cup with Herrmione and the Weasleys
On 25 August, 1994 Harry, the Weasley family (besides Mrs Weasley), and Hermione Granger attended the Quidditch World Cup. At Stoatshead Hill, Cedric Diggory and his father, Amos joined them. Once at the camp grounds, they met Ludo Bagman, Barty Crouch Snr with his house-elf Winky, and many other Hogwarts students and their families, including: Seamus Finnigan, Dean Thomas, Oliver Wood, and Draco Malfoy. They were able to see the match between the Irish and Bulgarian national teams up close, because Harry, the Weasleys, and Hermione had seats in the Top Box, thanks to a favour Mr Weasley had done for Ludo Bagman. It was during this World Cup that Harry learned of the existence of foreign wizarding schools, something he had not given any thought to before the cup.
Death Eaters causing a riot, attacking the Muggle Roberts family
The night after the match, while the Irish team's supporters were still celebrating, a group of black-cloaked, hooded figures held terrifying celebrations of their own by suspending the Muggle camp site manager and his family in air like twisted marionettes done via Levicorpus. They also proceeded to pillage and destroy everything in sight. On Mr Weasley's orders, Harry fled into the woods near the camp site, along with Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny. The group was separated in the woods and the trio were on their own. In the chaos Harry had lost his wand, he speculated that it most have fallen out of his pocket at some point. The trio ran into Draco Malfoy in the woods, and he all but told them that his father was among the cloaked wizards. Malfoy also gave a nasty bit of advice to the trio regarding Hermione's blood status, saying that she would be safer out of the hooded figures' sight.
The reappearance of the Dark Mark at the 1994 Quidditch World Cup
Later, Harry learned that Barty Crouch Jnr had stolen his wand from his pocket. While in a clearing in the woods, Harry, Ron, and Hermione heard someone shout the incantation Morsmordre, casting the Dark Mark — a green skull with a snake protruding from its mouth like a tongue — into the sky. Although Harry did not immediately recognise its significance, he soon learned that the Dark Mark had evil implications. Then, Barty Crouch Snr, Amos Diggory, and other Ministry of Magic employees Apparated into the clearing and began to question Harry, Ron, and Hermione about the Dark Mark. After Harry mentioned he had heard another voice conjure the Dark Mark, the Ministry employees searched the area and found the house-elf Winky unconscious in the bushes. Since Harry's wand was found in Winky's hand, Mr Crouch fired her for bringing shame to his family.
At the Hogwarts start-of-term feast, Professor Dumbledore announced that Hogwarts would host the Triwizard Tournament, a recently revived inter-school competition in which the Beauxbatons Academy of Magic and the Durmstrang Institute would also participate. New rules stated that only students seventeen and older could compete, for safety reasons. Also, during the start of term feast, Dumbledore introduced "Mad-Eye" Moody, an ex-Auror, as the newly appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. This news was greeted with a mixture of responses, as Moody was known to be a great Auror, a little crazy, and to have a magical eye, earning him the nickname "Mad-Eye" Moody.
A Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson on the Unforgivable Curses
During the first lesson with Moody on a Thursday, he reveals tht he will only be staying for the year and decides to show the fourth-year Gryffindors the Unforgivable Curses. Despite some fear amongst the students (especially Neville, who needs comfort from both the trio and Moody after the lesson; Moody later lends Neville a Herbology book to cheer him up), Moody shows the entire class the three curses using spiders as his test subjects: the Imperius Curse, Cruciatus Curse, and Killing Curse . He also reveals the the use of these spells gain the user a one way ticket to Azkaban.
The Goblet of Fire selecting Harry as the unexpected fourth champion
Around Hallowe'en, the students from Beauxbatons Academy of Magic and Durmstrang Institute arrived at the school. The arrival of famous international Quidditch Star Viktor Krum caused a lot of excitement, particularly among girls. Viktor Krum, Fleur Delacour, and Cedric Diggory were all chosen to represent their respective schools in this tournament. However, Harry was mysteriously chosen as a fourth competitor. This came as a shock for all those present, due to the fact that he was under-age and that he never entered his name into the Goblet of Fire during the selection process. Many people (even Ron and fellow Gryffindors) did not believe Harry's story. They thought this to be nothing but another attempt to gain even more fame and eternal glory. This caused extreme tension between the two friends and they did not speak again for a long time. Ron started spending more time with Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan.
Hermione on the other hand "accepted his story without question" and explains the reason behind Ron's recent actions toward Harry, stating that it steams from jealousy. She later assisted Harry in preparing for the Tournament by teaching him useful spells, such as the Summoning Charm. Harry used this charm in the first task of the Tournament. The champions were to face three dangerous challenges on their way to the Triwizard Cup. These challenges were in correspondence to the four elements.
Rita Skeeter interviewing Harry during the wand weighing ceremony
A few days after his name unexpectedly came out of the Goblet, Harry attended the wand weighing ceremony, where his wand was inspected. After examining the other champion's wands, Ollivander examines Harry's and deems it in perfect condition. After the champions and judges go through a long photoshoot, Harry goes to dinner and then returns to Gryffindor Tower. Once in the tower Ron tells him that he has an owl and that their detention starts later. The letter is from Sirius telling Harry he will contact him on 22 November at 1:00 a.m. Harry must be alone at the fireplace in the Gryffindor common room at that time. There the notorious Daily Prophet reporter Rita Skeeter asked him many leading questions, took everything he said out of context, and wrote a ludicrous article about him and Hermione.
The result of Draco and Harry's duel outside of Potions class, after having teased Harry
This article was titled "HARRY POTTER'S SECRET HEARTACHE". The piece claimed that Hermione was Harry's girlfriend and that she was toying him around by seeking the affections of Viktor Krum, who himself was very much smitten with her. Harry faced even more turmoil during this time, as the majority of the student body was making everyday life difficult for him. Hufflepuff believed that Harry was stealing spotlight from their house and Draco Malfoy was doing everything in his power to make Harry even more miserable. He accomplished this by making and mass producing "POTTER STINKS" badges, which many students proceeded to wear around. Malfoy had also taking to commenting and reading aloud Rita Skeeter's articles every chance he got, making Harry very uncomfortable.
In the first task, each champion needed to get past a dragon in order to collect a golden egg. Harry received help from Hagrid, who showed the dragons to him and Madam Maxime. Realising that every champion but Cedric had found out about the dragons, Harry told Cedric about the first task. He did this as a way of levelling the playing field. The newly appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Alastor Moody, witnessed Harry telling Cedric but did not report him. Instead he advised Harry to play to his strengths, hinting that he should use his flying ability to get the golden egg.
Harry facing a Hungarian Horntail in the first task of the Triwizard Tournament
Four different dragons were chosen for each of the champions to face. On 24 November, Fleur ended up with the Common Welsh Green, Cedric with the Swedish Short-Snout, Viktor Krum with the Chinese Fireball, and Harry faced the Hungarian Horntail (the most dangerous of the four). Harry used a Summoning Charm to bring him his Firebolt and dodged the Hungarian Horntail to get the golden egg. Harry escaped the dangerous task with a mild cut to the arm, due to being grazed by one of the Horntail's spikes.
Harry proved to be the fastest when it came to capturing his egg, which earned him a compliment from Professor McGonagall. He and Viktor Krum tied for first at the end of the task. After seeing how dangerous the task was, Ron decided that Harry did not put his own name in the Goblet. He also came to the conclusion that someone was trying to kill Harry and made amends with him after months of not speaking. Harry was so relieved that Ron had come to his scenes that he instantly forgave him.
Between the first and second tasks, the Yule Ball, a Triwizard Tournament tradition took place on Christmas. Ron, dismayed to discover that Viktor Krum had asked Hermione to go with him, called her out for "consorting with the enemy", though he and Hermione acted as if they had not fought the following day. Harry asked his long-time crush Cho Chang to attend the Yule Ball with him, but was disappointed to learn that she had already accepted an invitation from Cedric Diggory, a fellow champion. Harry and Ron ended up attending with Parvati and Padma Patil, respectively.
Harry and Parvati dancing at the Yule Ball on Christmas Day
While at the ball both Harry and Ron ended up neglecting their dates. Harry watched Cho with Cedric and Ron was overcome with jealousy for Viktor Krum, who danced with Hermione. After the Yule Ball, Rita Skeeter struck again. She had overheard Hagrid telling Madame Maxime about his family and his heritage. She then wrote an article exposing Hagrid as a half-giant, and he was so ashamed that he stopped teaching and stopped coming to meals in the Great Hall. Dumbledore tried to bring him around by visiting his hut, but to no avail. Only after Harry, Ron, and Hermione proved that they still liked and that it did not matter to them that he was half-giant did he finally return to his post.
Harry in the prefect's bathroom working out the clue of the golden egg
To prepare for the second task, Harry was told that he had to open the egg he had won from the dragon, but every time he did, it let out a horrifying screech. His rescue from that particular problem came when Cedric Diggory paid him back with the information that he would figure it out if he were to "mull things over in the hot water" with the egg. Harry reluctantly followed this advice and decided to take a bath in the prefects' bathroom. He had an uncomfortable exchange with Moaning Myrtle, and on the way back to the common room, he ran into Professors Snape and Moody. The latter informed Harry of Barty Crouch Snr's obsession with catching Dark wizards.
Harry meeting the Merpeople colony in the Black Lake during the second task
Harry learned that the second task was going into the Black Lake to rescue "the thing they would miss most" from the merpeople. Harry's new problem was how he was going to survive underwater for an hour. He got his answer in the form of gillyweed from Dobby, who had come to work at Hogwarts. The second task took place on 24 February. Harry was able to save Ron, but when he reached him he was shocked to find Hermione, Cho, and Gabrielle Delacour (Fleur's sister), there as well. After the other hostages were rescued, Harry hung around and saved Gabrielle, as well as Ron. The judges were then informed that Harry reached to hostages first. He was outside the hour that had been allotted, although doing so earned him extra points for "moral fibre". After the second task had finished, Harry and Cedric were tied for first, Viktor was in second, and Fleur was in last place.
The trio visiting Sirius in the cave in which he was hiding
After Harry was mysteriously entered in the Triwizard Tournament, Sirius hid in a cave near Hogsmeade, where Harry, Ron, and Hermione occasionally visited him, and provided mostly moral support to Harry during this time. Sirius warned him about Igor Karkaroff, the Durmstrang headmaster, telling Harry that Karkaroff used to be a Death Eater and that he gave up a considerable number of names in exchange for his freedom. Harry told Sirius about seeing the name "Bartemius Crouch" appear on the Marauder's Map when he was working on the second clue. Sirius admitted that it was fishy, but told Harry to focus on the task at hand and leave the mystery surrounding Crouch to others.
A month before the final task, the Champions were shown the beginnings of the challenge. Harry and Cedric both expressed horror at the sight of the Quidditch pitch being turned into the hedge maze, put were quickly reassured by Bagman that it would be put right after the Tournament. They were told the third and final task was going into a maze filled with obstacles to find the Triwizard Cup. On the way back to the castle, Krum took Harry aside to ask him something. Thinking that this was something important, Harry went with him.
Hermione receiving hate mail from in response to Skeeter's article about her and Harry
Krum then asked Harry about his relationship with Hermione, in whom Krum was deeply interested. Harry told him that there was nothing between him and Hermione and that she was just a friend. He also told Krum not to believe anything Rita Skeeter, who had recently written in Witch Weekly that there was a Harry-Hermione-Krum love triangle, wrote about him. This supposed love triangle also led to Hermione receiving numerous amounts of hate mail. At that moment, Barty Crouch Snr appeared in the forest disoriented and asking for Dumbledore. He disappeared when Harry went to fetch Dumbledore.
Harry preparing to enter Dumbledore's Pensieve without permission
During a Divination lesson, Harry passed out and had a vision of Voldemort being informed of someone's death and him torturing Wormtail for failing to prevent someone from escaping. Harry awoke with his scar badly hurting and pretended he needed to go to the hospital wing, he actually went to see Dumbledore. Once in the headmaster's office, Harry overheard an argument between Dumbledore, Moody, and Cornelius Fudge, regarding the Barty Crouch situation: Fudge refused to believe the words that Crouch said about Bertha Jorkins being dead and, while debating what had happened to Crouch, Fudge suggested that Madame Maxime was the likely culprit given her half-giant physiology. Dumbledore then accused the Minister of acting on personal prejudice, which he ignored due to Dumbledore's friendship with Hagrid. Moody interrupted the debate to explain that Harry had arrived.
Harry witnessing the trial of the Lestranges and Barty Crouch Jnr through the pensieve
Harry was left alone in the office after Dumbledore, Fudge, and Moody left to examine the school grounds. While looking around, Harry noticed Dumbledore's Pensieve. Through curiosity, Harry peered in and ended up looking into three of Dumbledore's memories, from the days immediately after the end of the First Wizarding War. The first was the trial of Igor Karkaroff, in which he renounced his support of the Death Eaters and gave the names of existing Death Eaters, including Snape. Dumbledore (in the memory) stated that Snape had defected the Death Eaters and was a spy against Voldemort and no longer a threat.
The second memory showed the trial of Ludo Bagman, who was accused of passing information to Voldemort, but his popularity quickly cleared him. The third was the trial of the Lestranges (Bellatrix, Rodolphus, and Rabastan) and Crouch's son, for the use of the Cruciatus Curse on Alice and Frank Longbottom. Crouch sentenced them all to a lifetime in Azkaban.
To prepare for the final task, Harry, Ron, and Hermione used vacant classrooms to practise spells and jinxes. In Divination class between two of these study periods, Harry dozed off dreaming about Voldemort and left the classroom in a disturbing fashion. Rita Skeeter had witnessed this event and she wrote, on 24 June, 1995, the day of the final task, that Harry was "disturbed and dangerous". This did nothing to boost Harry's morale, but when he spent the day with Bill and Molly Weasley, they cheered him up. They also came to watch the final task as his substitute family.
Harry in the hedge maze with an Imperiused Viktor Krum
Harry successfully navigated the maze with the aid of the Four-Point Spell. He got past both a Blast-Ended-Skrewt and a Boggart disguised as a Dementor. Along the way, he heard Fleur scream. Harry rescued Cedric, who had been attacked by an bewitched Krum; Harry managed to stun Krum and send out a signal for Krum to be rescued before he and Cedric moved on. Harry managed to pass a sphinx.
During this final event, Harry saved Cedric from a Acromantula and Cedric being grateful offered Harry the cup. Both Hogwarts champions then showed supreme sportsmanship and cooperation despite the tension brought on by the maze. They agreed to touch the Triwizard Cup simultaneously, as it would be a Hogwarts victory either way, which would result in tie for first place. Harry and Cedric were unaware that the cup was actually a portkey and were transported to the graveyard in Little Hangleton.
Cedric's murder at the hands of Peter Pettigrew and Lord Voldemort
This graveyard was the Riddle family's final resting place, where Lord Voldemort was waiting. Just as Harry and Cedric are trying to figure out what happened, someone appears and Harry's scar begins hurting again. Acting on Voldemort's orders, his servant Wormtail murdered Cedric with the Killing Curse. Harry saw a flash of green light and heard Cedric's body hit the graveyard's ground with a thud. Harry is then dragged to a large marble tombstone, with the name Tom Riddle engraved upon were he is bound. From there he was forced to witness a ritual in which Pettigrew used some of Harry's blood to restore Voldemort's body. The Death Eaters were summoned to the cemetery.
After his Death Eaters arrived, Voldemort spends time criticising them for failing to seek him out during these last thirteen years, even though they knew that he had found a way to escape mortal death. He then rewards Wormtail for aiding with his rebirth by creating a new silver hand for him. The Dark Lord identifies more Death Eaters and reveals that this servant who is at Hogwarts has ensured that Harry would win the tournament and be brought to the graveyard. Voldemort then frees the injured and weakened Harry and orders him to face him in a duel, wishing to prove who among the two is stronger in front of his minions now that there is no one around to protect Harry.
Harry duelling Voldemort in a battle of wills, triggering the effect of Priori Incantatem
When Harry refused to observe the formalities of a wizard's duel, Voldemort used the Imperius Curse to force Harry to bow to him. Voldemort then tortured him by subjecting him to the Cruciatus Curse and attempted to use the Imperius Curse again, but Harry was able to resist it the second time. When it didn't work he tried to murder Harry using the Killing Curse. Harry fired back with the Disarming Charm. The nature of their wands' mystical connection caused their magical streams to interlock, which created an effect called Priori Incantatem (Reverse Spell effect). Harry and Voldemort then engaged in a battle of will. After Harry was momentarily shielded by the echoes of Lord Voldemort's previous victims, including Harry's parents and Cedric. Cedric's echo asked Harry to return his body to his parents. This bought Harry some time to grab Cedric's body and the Portkey.
The truth about Barty Crouch Jnr was exposed
Chaos erupted when Harry returned to Hogwarts with Cedric's dead body in tow. It was uncovered that Barty Crouch Jnr, who had willingly taken the Dark Mark as a young man, was throughout the school year disguised as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher Alastor Moody. Crouch (disguised as Moody) managed to usher Harry away from the panicking crowd to interrogate him about Voldemort's return. He wanted to murder Harry, but Albus Dumbledore and several other members of the Hogwarts staff arrived to stop him. Under the influence of Veritaserum, Crouch confessed everything.
The Minister for Magic visiting Harry in the Hospital Wing
In a terrible turn of fate Crouch's soul was extracted by the Dementor's Kiss, from the Dementor that accompanied Cornelius Fudge. Fudge felt that his personal safety was in jeopardy, hence why he brought the Dementor. As a result, Crouch Jnr could not give testimony and the Ministry of Magic began to dispute Harry's and Dumbledore's insistence that Voldemort had returned. The Minister refused to believe Harry's account of Voldemort's return, even when he was supported by Albus Dumbledore. This was due to Fudge not wanting the peace and tranquillity they worked so hard for to be destabilised by this announcement. The Ministry publicly denied the Dark Lord's return and branded Harry and Dumbledore either liars or nutters in the press. Voldemort and his Death Eaters took advantage of this to operate in secret, while Dumbledore called for a reconstitution of the Order of the Phoenix.
Harry with others in 12 Grimmauld Place preparing to clean
Witnessing Cedric Diggory's murder was very difficult for Harry, and it was not helpful that he was forced back to number 4 Privet Drive in the school holidays. He suffered constant nightmares and flashbacks. Also his friends, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger seemed to block him from information and he was blocked entirely from the wizarding world except for the Daily Prophet that said that Harry was wrong. To make things worse than they were already, on 2 August someone sent Dementors to attack Harry in the Muggle town of Little Whinging, in an attempt to neutralise him. He was forced to perform a Patronus Charm in order to save Dudley and himself.
After Harry explained to the Dursleys about the Dementor's abilities, Vernon blamed Harry and was ready to throw Harry out. He had always yearned to do so since the family received Harry, when Petunia received a Howler. Before she had an opportunity to open the letter, it burst into flames and a menacing voice said, "Remember my last, Petunia". Petunia then immediately convinced her husband to let Harry remain at Privet Drive and told him that he needed to stay in his room. Harry, having no idea of what was going on, retreated to his room and proceeded to stay there.
Harry's hearing for using magic in front of a Muggle
Subsequently, Harry was formally accused of performing underage magic in the presence of a Muggle and was expelled, but thanks to Albus Dumbledore's intervention, this was changed to a disciplinary hearing in front of the entire Wizengamot at the Ministry of Magic on 12 August. In a further attempt to discredit Harry, the Ministry changed the time and location of the hearing at the last minute, but Harry was able to make it there just minutes late. He was threatened with expulsion from Hogwarts, but was exonerated with help from Dumbledore, who had a witness and legal loopholes to help him.
Umbridge teaching a purely theoretical DADA lesson
In retaliation against Dumbledore, Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge appointed Dolores Umbridge, his Senior Under-Secretary, as the new Hogwarts Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher so that she could spy on the school. She was later appointed Hogwarts High Inquisitor, empowered to arbitrarily change and impose school rules whenever she chose. She made numerous rules that the students were expected to follow and if they did not harsh punishments would be enacted. Umbridge proved to be sadistic and cruel, with a personality that resembled poisoned honey.
Harry hated her on sight and she had a deep dislike for him as well. This dislike bordered on hatred and came about because of her inability to control him. Every time Harry spoke out of turn or even mentioned Voldemort, Umbridge threw him into detention. The detentions he had with her were torturous, forcing him to write with a Black Quill. The Black Quill was of her own invention and it made him write with his own blood, scribed the message "I must not tell lies" onto the back of his hand. Harry had to endure numerous sessions with the quill, so many that the words are now permanently carved into his hand. These detentions however did not sway him from his opinions or make him subservient to Umbridge. They had the opposite effect and strengthen his resolve to stand by his statements of Voldemort's return.
Harry in detention with Umbridge, being forced to use a Black Quill
However, Umbridge presumed the message had failed to sink in, as Harry spread the word through The Quibbler about the previous year's events, and thus he was banned from any more Hogsmeade visits. Also once Umbridge found out that he gave The Quibbler an exclusive interview she banned the magazine, which caused the whole student body to take an interest in it. Later in the year Ron was chosen to be a prefect, not him. This surprised everyone, as they all believed that Harry would have gotten the badge instead of Ron.
It was later revealed that Ron was chosen instead of Harry because Dumbledore thought that Harry had "enough responsibility to be going on with". Harry's jealousy threatened to affect his friendship with Ron, but he felt better when he discovered that his father was also not chosen as a prefect at school. This suggests that Harry's desire in becoming prefect was to emulate his father, who was Head Boy in his day, not to inflate a sense of his own importance.
Because Fudge was raked with paranoia and stubbornly believed that Dumbledore was training an army to overthrow him, Umbridge had the Defence Against the Dark Arts class reduced to reading textbooks. This proved an ineffective teaching method and did nothing to prepare students for what was to come. Hermione proposed the idea that Harry teach the students, as he has previous experience defending himself against the Dark Arts and various monsters.
The meeting of students in the Hog's Head that would become known as Dumbledore's Army
The trio held a meeting at the Hog's Head to discuss with other students the possibility of Harry giving them Defence lessons. Harry is stunned at how many there are various Gryffindors, Ravenclaws, and Hufflepuffs show up. Although he harboured the suspicion that a few, such as Zacharias Smith, only wanted to hear about the night Cedric Diggory was murdered. After some initial scepticism, the students started to list Harry's achievements: the rescue of the Philosopher's Stone from a disembodied Voldemort, slaying of Slytherin's basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets with the Sword of Gryffindor, ability to produce a corporeal Patronus, and winning of the Triwizard Tournament.
Harry instructing Neville Longbottom and others during a D.A. meeting
Giving into Hermione's persistent urgings Harry secretly trained a group of students in practical defensive magic. In an attempt to make light of the Ministry's fears the group called themselves Dumbledore's Army (or the D.A.). Aware that arranging meetings and passing the word about them verbally was not a secure method of communication, Hermione bewitched several coins with a Protean Charm one for each member of the D.A. When activated by Harry, the numbers on each coin would change to inform the bearer of the time and date of the next meeting. Feeling highly anxious and frustrated most of the time Harry found that the D.A. was now his chief source of happiness, and the thing to which he looked forward throughout his school day. This happiness was felt by most members, as all of them (particularly Neville and the Creevey brothers) gained a lot of skills under Harry's tutelage.
Harry teaching the members of the D.A. the Patronus Charm
Harry taught the group many different spells, ranking from the simplistic Disarming Charm to the highly advanced Patronus Charm. The class progressed at a fair rate, practising the Impediment Jinx, Reductor Curse, Stunning Spell, and various other hexes and jinxes before temporarily breaking up for Christmas break. Lessons continued during the early months of 1996, The class mastered the Shield Charm, and began to work on the Patronus Charm. Some members were even able to produce corporeal Patronuses, Harry thought this might have been due to the lack of Dementors present, as there was nothing to make the students scared.
Harry and Cho kissing for the first time underneath mistletoe
Cho Chang also became a member. During the meetings whenever Harry was near, she would become so flustered that she had difficulty casting spells correctly. Before the Christmas holidays, she and Harry were discussing how she had never been able to pull of the Stunning Spell before, when the room generated mistletoe. The room did this due to sensing the tension that was present. Under the mistletoe, the two kissed for the first time. This moment was confusing to Harry, as Cho, clearly still suffering from her ex-boyfriend's death, had been crying during their kiss. Cho's crying during the kiss also caused concern in Harry.
Harry later informed Hermione and Ron of his disastrous first kiss and Hermione comforted him saying that it was not his kissing that made Cho cry. However, Harry took on some much more pressing worries later that night. Lord Voldemort, wanting a "secret weapon" against him, had heard of a prophecy hidden in the Ministry's Department of Mysteries concerning both of them. Voldemort had been obsessing over the door to the Hall of Prophecy for the past few months, and had been inadvertently allowing Harry to read his thoughts through Legilimency. The link between Harry and Voldemort's minds had been growing stronger for quite a while.
Harry witnessing Nagini's attack on Arthur Weasley
A result of this growing connection come to pass after Harry fell asleep in the boys dormitory (on the night of his kiss with Cho). Harry witnessed Nagini attack Arthur Weasley in his dream, and felt almost as if he had been the snake. Harry woke the other boys and proceeded to vomit, Professor McGonagall was immediately alerted to the problem. Realising what could happen if the link grew more powerful, Dumbledore commissioned Snape to train Harry in Occlumency in an effort to prevent further problems.
Critically injured, Arthur was taken to St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. Harry, Ron, Ginny, Fred, and George took a portkey to Grimmauld Place. When they arrive at headquarters, they were greeted by Sirius, who ordered them to stay put and wait for news. Mrs Weasley stated that Arthur survived the attack and was grateful towards Harry. Even though Arthur survived, he was required to take a Blood-Replenishing Potion at regular intervals. Mr Weasley also shared the ward with a man who had been bitten by a werewolf and a woman with a massive chunk out of her leg who refused to tell the Healers what had bitten her, arousing suspicions she had been handling something illegal.
The trio and Ginny seeing Lockhart in the Janus Thickey Ward for spell damage
Hermione joined Harry and the Weasleys at Grimmauld Place for Christmas, and Percy sent back his Weasley jumper, which made his mother cry. Hermione, Ron and Ginny discovered that Neville's parents were insane and living at St Mungo's. They were informed of this by Neville's grandmother, who made it known that Frank and Alice were tortured by Death Eaters for information regarding Voldemort. They also saw their former Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Gilderoy Lockhart. Also Harry finally admitted that he knew what happened to Neville's parents.
Harry's first Occlumency lesson with Snape
Lessons were given once a week, under the guise of Remedial Potions, much to Harry's discomfort. Unfortunately, Harry was extremely curious about the door he keep seeing within his dreams. Under Snape's tutelage, Harry repeatedly had his mind broken into in order to train him. Snape also ordered Harry to close his mind every night as practice. Unfortunately, due to the mutual animosity between the teacher and student, Snape was unkind and discouraging in his methods despite his own mastery of the skill, while Harry did not take Snape's lessons too seriously, and neglected to practise.
Coupled with Harry being emotionally open at all times, the lessons did not progress much, with only rare instances where Harry was able to resist, if only briefly. If anything, having his mind repeatedly assaulted forced Harry to leave himself more vulnerable, as he barely tried to close it willingly. During a lesson in Occlumency, Snape stepped out of the room, and Harry's curiosity got the best of him. He looked into the pensieve, which contained Snape's memories, and, to his dismay, Harry found images of his father bullying Snape and of his mother rushing to his defence. Harry found himself siding with his mother, agreeing that James' treatment of Snape was wrong and it bordered on being almost cruel.
A memory Harry saw featuring Lily Evans standing up to James Potter
The conflict escalated to the point where Snape called Lily a "Mudblood". Snape attempted to apologise for his actions, but this incident cost him her friendship. Snape himself discovered Harry's spying. Snape refused to give him any more Occlumency lessons, something that Harry was not particularly concerned about and something he did not inform anyone of. Uncovering the source behind Snape's hatred for James left Harry seeing his father in a slightly different light. He also found comfort in the fact that at least his mother appeared to be person of strong morals while wondering why she ever agreed to marry James in the first place.
Harry in the Headmaster's office, just prior to Dumbledore's escape from Hogwarts
As the second term progressed, Harry's relationship with Cho became more strained. While the two did like each other, Cho was mistakenly jealous of Hermione due to the latter's closeness with Harry, and Harry still felt awkward about Cho's feelings over Cedric. When Cho's friend, Marietta Edgecombe, betrayed the D.A. to Umbridge, the members were all punished and forced to end their meetings.
Harry was furious with Marietta but Cho insisted on defending her friend. Cho even claimed that it was not Marietta's fault because she was being pressured by her mother. At this point, Cho's and Harry's relationship "fell apart", and the two no longer saw each other romantically. Umbridge is appointed Headmistress and imposes even tighter control. Fred and George Weasley rebelled against the new authority at the school. On one occasion, the twins released enchanted fireworks through the castle.
Harry and others watching as Fred and George openly mocked Umbridge's authority
Fred and George took it easy during the Easter holidays, but then took their rebellion to a new level. They turned a corridor of the school into a swamp to create a diversion for Harry to access the fireplace in Umbridge's office in an attempt to contact Sirius, and were cornered by Umbridge and members of the Inquisitorial Squad. In a final act of defiance, the twins summoned their brooms, openly mocked Umbridge's authority, struck the Squad members with a variety of jinxes, and escaped the school behind to pursue a career in their joke shop with the money Harry lent them.
The fifth years began the sessions on the advice of what they would need to do to prepare for the careers they would pursue after graduation. During Harry's career advice session with Professor McGonagall, he told her that he wanted to be an Auror. During this admission they were rudely interrupted several times by Umbridge; she remarked against Harry's ambition of becoming an Auror. She stated that applicants could not have a criminal record, and these constant interruptions angered McGonagall. The meeting ended with McGonagall supporting him, and having a screaming argument with Umbridge.
Hagrid introducing Harry and Hermione to the sixteen foot giant Grawp
During the final Quidditch match of the year — in which Harry did not play as Umbridge had banned him for life — Hagrid, who had returned to the school months into the term and very badly beaten, decided to show Harry and Hermione why he was so badly injured. This caused them to miss much of Gryffindor's Quidditch match. Hagrid also relayed to the trio were he had been during those months that he was away. He along with Madam Maxime were given a mission to the Giant Colony, in order to persuade them to join Dumbledore and his cause. This mission proved to be a failure to the Order, as the giants chose to align with the Death Eaters, due to their shared love of violence and killing.
Hagrid had dragged a giant back with him from his mission over the summer. It transpired that the giant (named Grawp) was Hagrid's half-brother on his mother's side, and that Hagrid had been attempting to civilise the giant, but with few results. He made Harry and Hermione promise that they would look after Grawp, should Hagrid be forced to leave the school for any reason. Hagrid was attacked and left the school during O.W.L. examinations, and thus Harry never had to go down to Grawp in the forest.
Harry's false vision of Voldemort torturing Sirius Black in the Hall of Prophecy
Eventually, late in the O.W.L. examinations on 18 June, while taking his History of Magic exam Harry dozed off. He received a vision of Voldemort torturing Sirius and ordering him to get the prophecy. Harry was prepared to go to the Ministry immediately, but Hermione advised him to check Grimmauld Place first to see if Sirius was still there. Harry used the Floo Network in Umbridge's office to peer into Grimmauld Place, where Kreacher stated that Sirius was gone. Unfortunately, Umbridge caught Harry and his friends in the act.
Umbridge interrogating Harry and threatening him with the Cruciatus Curse
Umbridge asked Snape to extract information from Harry through the use of Veritaserum, but Snape claimed to have none left in his stocks. Umbridge then resorted to the Cruciatus Curse, revealing that it was she who set the Dementors loose on Harry. Hermione managed to save him by luring Umbridge into the Forbidden Forest. Once in the forest Umbridge attempted to harm Harry and Hermione, but was dragged off by centaurs for calling them "filthy half-breeds! Beasts!" and "creatures of near-human intelligence". Harry and Hermione escaped when Grawp stumbled into the centaur camp looking for Hagrid. The trio, along with D.A. members Ginny Weasley, Neville Longbottom, and Luna Lovegood — who had assisted in Harry's attempt to contact Grimmauld Place — used Thestrals to fly to London.
Death Eaters surrounding the six D.A. members in an attempt to retrieve the prophecy
After reaching the Department of Mysteries, Harry led them all through various rooms in search of Sirius, without finding him. The group became doubtful until they came across a room filled with crystal balls, later to be known as prophecies. One of the prophecies had Harry's name on it, and he picked it up, much to the displeasure of Hermione. Upon picking up the prophecy Death Eaters appeared, revealing that it was all a ruse to bring him there. Harry then attempts to buy time by fully mocking Voldemort in front of his Death Eaters, which infuriates Bellatrix, yet Lucius stops her from hurting Potter, not through defence, but so that they can protect the prophecy. Harry still refuses to hand over the prophecy, so Lucius then begins to tease him that the prophecy holds the answer to his scar, why Voldemort wishes to kill him, and the cause of the Second Wizarding War.
Harry and Sirius duelling Death Eaters Lucius Malfoy and Antonin Dolohov
Just then, on Harry's signal, the six D.A. members all use the Reductor Curse to smash the shelves of prophecies, distracting the Death Eaters so that they could flee. Ron, Ginny, and Luna had taken another path and Harry, Hermione, and Neville did not know where they were. Chaos ensued, Harry's group was chased through various rooms. When in he Death Chamber, all but Harry and Neville were incapacitated in the fighting. Then reinforcements from the Order of the Phoenix, alerted by Snape, arrived to help aid in the battle. In the ensuing fighting, Sirius Black was murdered by a killing curse from his cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange, and fell through a mysterious stone arch. Harry pursued Bellatrix, using the Cruciatus Curse, but he was unable to kill her.
Voldemort appeared, angered by the failures of his Death Eaters. For the second time, he attempted to fatally curse Harry, who was too transfixed to even defend himself, but Dumbledore's sudden arrival saved him. Voldemort then fully possessed Harry, hoping that Dumbledore would sacrifice Harry in order to kill Voldemort. However, Voldemort was forced to leave Harry's body when Harry's grief for Sirius became too overwhelming to bear, as Voldemort did not understand the concept of love. Voldemort then grabbed Bellatrix and Disapparated, but not before the Minister and Ministry employees saw him and finally accepted that he was back.
Dumbledore telling Harry the whole prophecy
Back at Hogwarts, Harry appeared in Dumbledore's office and tried to get out after Phineas Nigellus Black mentioned Sirius, only to find the door locked. Harry was none too pleased about Dumbledore's name being mentioned by the portraits. When the Headmaster returned, Harry lost his temper and started destroying Dumbledore's possessions, trying to get Dumbledore to let him out; though Dumbledore calmly levelled with Harry, admitting he had every right to be angry with him. Dumbledore asked Harry to sit down and listen to what he needed to say, promising that afterwards, Harry would be free to rage and storm at him, even attack him if he wished.
Dumbledore explained to Harry the real reason why Voldemort tried to kill him as an infant. A prophecy stated that he was destined to defeat the Dark Lord, for he had powers Voldemort did not: the ability to love, something that the Department of Mysteries was trying to research in a locked room. As a result of the battle, the Ministry of Magic realised that Lord Voldemort had indeed returned, and Harry and Dumbledore were vindicated along with Sirius (though he didn't live long enough to enjoy his freedom, but was honoured as hero by the Ministry). Serious steps were taken following this change in policy, such as the dismissal of Umbridge. However, this was not a sea of change, as the Ministry still had a mistrust of Dumbledore.
In the wake of the Battle of the Department of Mysteries Harry was sent home to 4 Privet Drive for the summer holidays. There, he obsessed and brooded over his godfather's death where he hardly left his room and refused meals. As the battle had taken place at one point in the famed Hall of Prophecy, many in the wizarding community including the Daily Prophet began to speculate about the relationship between Harry and that place, leading to, accidentally correct reports calling Harry "the Chosen One", the one destined to defeat Lord Voldemort once and for all.
Dumbledore and Harry searching for Horace Slughorn
Early in his summer, Dumbledore requested that Harry join him in some unknown adventure. He arrived to pick Harry up at 4 Privet Drive on a Friday, late in the evening. Harry had not informed his aunt and uncle of this development and it came as a great surprise to them. However, they could not depart immediately, because there was a piece of business to attend to: Sirius's will. Much to his rage, Harry inherited his godfather Sirius Black's estate. This included: 12 Grimmauld Place, the Black family vault, and the Blacks' irritating and half-crazed house elf, Kreacher. Harry still retained animosity towards Kreacher after his involvement in Sirius' death a few months previous. He also gave Dumbledore permission to continue to use Grimmauld Place as Order headquarters. Afterwards they were off, and Dumbledore Apparated Harry to the small village of Budleigh Babberton, where Harry was introduced to Horace Slughorn.
Harry meeting Horace Slughorn, the former Hogwarts Potions Master
In their time together, Harry and Slughorn discussed some of the professor's old students and the improved security at Hogwarts. When Harry and Dumbledore made to leave, Slughorn agreed to return to the school if he got a raise and a larger office. Following their visit, Dumbledore dropped Harry off at The Burrow, where Harry spent the rest of the summer playing two-sided Quidditch, but not before informing Harry that he was to be given special lessons by Dumbledore himself. Later in the summer Harry learned that he had achieved seven O.W.L.s: one 'Outstanding', five 'Exceeds Expectations', and one 'Acceptable'. He also received a surprise when he was made Captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team, which put him on equal standing with prefects.
Having learned of Professor Slughorn's propensity for hand-picking favourites. Harry experienced this first-hand. He and many others were invited to join Horace Slughorn's Slug Club, during the ride to Hogwarts aboard the Hogwarts Express. Harry did not enjoy the experience, and made to leave as soon as he possibly could. Instead of returning to his previous compartment, Harry made to eavesdrop upon Draco Malfoy. Malfoy's precipitation in meeting weeks earlier had led Harry to believe he had taken the Dark Mark. What he heard did nothing to dispel his suspicions.
Professor Slughorn giving Harry the vial of Felix Felicis
Harry arrived late to the Welcoming Feast, due to an encounter with Malfoy, in which Malfoy realised he was eavesdropping in his Hogwarts Express compartment under his invisbility cloak. Malfoy froze him with the Full Body-Bind Curse and stomped on his nose, breaking it and leaving him there unconscious, where he soon found by Nymphadora Tonks who healed his nose and escorted him to the castle. At the feast, Harry was shocked to learn that Severus Snape had been promoted to Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. While this disappointed Harry greatly, his career as an Auror reopened, as Professor Slughorn would accept his 'Exceeds Expectations' score in Potions.
Harry proceeded to take five classes this year: Charms, Defence Against the Dark Arts, Herbology, Potions, and Transfiguration. As Harry had not bothered to buy a text book, Slughorn allowed Harry to borrow an old one from the supply cabinet. When Harry examined it, he found that it once had belonged to a student identified only as the "Half-Blood Prince". The book contained copious handwritten notes that helped Harry excel in Potions for once. In fact, his skills won him a prize from Slughorn — a small vial of Felix Felicis, also known as "liquid luck".
As promised, Dumbledore began the private series of lessons with Harry concerning Lord Voldemort. In the first lesson, Dumbledore showed Harry the first of a number of memories he had collected concerning Voldemort's past using his Pensieve. These lessons regarding Riddle's past were in order to learn his secrets and weaknesses. Dumbledore promised Harry that this information would help him survive and would prove crucial to the eventual defeat of Lord Voldemort.
A private lesson with Dumbledore, Harry about to view a memory in the Pensieve
In their first lesson, the pair delved into the origin of the boy Tom Riddle, by viewing the Gaunt family that once lived around Little Hangleton. It showed a former Head of the Magical Law Enforcement Patrol, Bob Ogden visiting a man named Marvolo Gaunt in order to summon his son Morfin to a Ministry hearing in connection with an attack on a Muggle named Tom Riddle Snr. A huge commotion occurred: Morfin attacked Ogden, with Marvolo stoutly defending his son's actions. Marvolo also tried to attack his daughter Merope after finding out that she had an intense infatuation with Riddle.
After viewing this memory, Dumbledore told Harry that both Marvolo and Morfin were sentenced to six months and three years imprisonment respectively in Azkaban due to their behaviour. During this lesson, Harry also learned who Tom Riddle's parents were and how they came to be married. He also learned what kind of mindset of the Gaunt family possessed, and how Marvolo and Morfin believed strongly in blood supremacy, something the Voldemort's mother (Merope) did not share.
Quidditch Captain Harry supervising Gryffindor tryouts
The Saturday following Harry's first lessons, while in the Great Hall the trio find out (courtesy of the Daily Prophet) that Stan Shunpike has been arrested for supposed Death Eater activity. Apparently he was over heard talking about the Death Eaters secret plans while in a pub. Harry believed that Stan most likely knew nothing regarding secret plans, as Stan had a habit of greatly exaggerating. Afterwards Harry, as the new Gryffindor Quidditch Captain held trials to select the team for the annual Quidditch Cup. Due to Harry's popularity, it proves to be extremely taxing and difficult, with even first-years, Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs turning up for the trials.
The first test he administered was a basic flying test, something that proved to be a good idea as it became clear to Harry that most of the students present where not adapt flyers. After an arduous morning of tantrums, foolishness, and many complaints Harry picked the members of his team. The three Chasers, one of which was Ginny Weasley (who out flew all her competition and scored seventeen goals), two Beaters, and Ron Weasley as Keeper. Ron had only survived the tryouts with Hermione's help, who confunded his competition, Cormac McLaggen.
Harry becoming increasingly fascinated with the Half-Blood Prince's textbook
In studying the Half-Blood Prince's book, Harry discovered numerous hand-written spells that the Prince supposedly invented himself, such as Levicorpus and Muffliato. He tried these spells and became increasingly fascinated with the book, going as far as having it on him at all times. This was something that his friends were quick to comment on, stating that "all he does is read that bloody book" and that he "practically sleeps with it". Harry even considered the book to be almost a friend, a teacher and sort of guide.
Hermione disapproved of the book, partly because some of its spells have a dark nature, but mainly because it allows Harry to outperform her in potions. Three times, Slughorn attempts to invite Harry to one of his Slug Club parties, but Harry avoids them. Throughout the autumn, Harry used Quidditch to dodge Professor Slughorn's Slug Club events, doing this because he disliked the idea and because it was kinder than leaving Ron alone as Hermione had been invited as well.
The trio watching as Katie Bell was subjected to the curse on the Opal Necklace while in Hogsmeade
In October, during a Hogsmeade visit, Katie Bell was nearly killed after being bewitched to carry a cursed necklace to Dumbledore. Remembering seeing the same necklace in Borgin's shop, Harry voices his suspicions of Malfoy to Professor McGonagall. But she (like Ron and Hermione) rubbishes his theory, stating that Malfoy did not go to Hogsmeade as he had a detention with her, and that there is no proof that he bought the necklace. Harry felt annoyance towards Ron and Hermione, as they did not back him up, but he did not give up on his theory.
Harry's lessons were quite sporadic that autumn, and he did not have another one until after tragedy befell someone at Hogwarts. In this lesson, Harry first sees Caractacus Burke talking about Slytherin's Locket which a pregnant and desperate Merope had sold him, her husband having abandoned her when she stopped giving him love potion. Dumbledore then focused on Tom Riddle just as he was on the cusp of his Hogwarts years, and Harry discovered a troubled orphan who consciously used his magic to bully and intimidate the other children. Also Harry shared his suspicions of Malfoy with Dumbledore during their lesson, only to be rebuffed.
Harry playing as Seeker in the first match of the season
Not long after that meeting, Quidditch season was upon them. In preparation for their first game, Harry replaced the injured Katie Bell with Dean Thomas. The change produced some results, both expected, as the team excelled on the pitch, and unexpected, as Harry found himself in a jealous rage after seeing Dean kissing Ginny after practice. The team's only problem was Ron, who was suffering from a lack of confidence. In an attempt to boost Ron's confidence, Harry blatantly acted as if he had spiked Ron's pumpkin juice with Felix Felicis. Ron took the bait and played a flawless match; however, Hermione took the bait as well and acted unkindly toward Ron and Harry. While she made up with Harry when he told her of the ruse, Ron's sudden relationship with Lavender Brown led to continued strife, as it spiked jealousy in Hermione.
While Harry attempted to reconcile his best friends, the Christmas holidays were fast approaching and with them the Slug Club Christmas party out of which Harry could not wrangle. Since "the Chosen One" rumours had been printed, Harry had received an unnatural amount of attention from the young ladies at Hogwarts. Specifically a fourth year named Romilda Vane, who's attention bordered on obsession. As Harry could not ask Ginny to the party, he was left to ask Luna Lovegood to attend with him as a friend. This made Luna extremely happy and hugely disappointed the gaggles of giggling girls who awaited Harry below every doorway with mistletoe, they gave him resentful looks.
Harry overhearing a strange conversation between Draco Malfoy and Professor Snape
At the party, Harry was surprised to learn that Hermione attended with Cormac McLaggen, a large Gryffindor seventh year whom Ron despised. Hermione confessed that she did this solely on the fact that fact that it would annoy Ron the most. He told her that it served her right when McLaggen was less than gentlemanly, only talking about himself and Quidditch. Harry was then forced to endure a conversation with both Snape and Slughorn in regards to his potion making skills and his future career choice. Later, after Malfoy was apprehended "gate-crashing" the party by Filch, Harry learned that Malfoy was indeed up to something. He also learned that Professor Snape had made the Unbreakable Vow with Narcissa in order to protect him.
Harry discussing the overheard conversation between Snape and Malfoy during Christmas holidays
Harry's Christmas was less than enjoyable, as he was cornered by the new Minister for Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour. Scrimgeour had been hoping to speak with Harry for months and used Percy Weasley as his way in. The Minister interrupted the Weasley family Christmas. He tried to persuade Harry to become the Ministry's mascot, an idea that Harry was not prepared to accept. During the meeting Harry proceeded to tell Scrimgeour why he would not offer the Ministry his support, the main reasons being the Ministry's ineffectiveness in dealing with the Death Eater threat, the knowledge that Dolores Umbridge still held a position within the Ministry, the Ministry's refusal to come to his aid when he tried to inform the wizarding community of Voldemort's return the previous year, the fact that the Ministry had proven throughout the previous year that it was incredibly corrupt and dangerously complacent to the point of being rotten, and the mere fact that Harry had no desire to be used. This discussion left Harry and Scrimgeour on increasingly bad terms.
Upon returning to Hogwarts, Harry's sporadic lessons with Dumbledore continued. Early in January, Harry delved into a memory that all but proved that Riddle had murdered his own paternal family after his fifth year at Hogwarts. Then Dumbledore showed Harry a most curious memory, a memory that Professor Slughorn had apparently tampered with, and he gave Harry his first homework assignment: to get the real memory from Slughorn. After impressing Slughorn using a bezoar in class, Harry tried the direct approach only to be instantly shot down.
Harry saving Ron, after the latter ingested poisoned mead
By 1 March, Harry had still not acquired Slughorn's true memory and had begun to grow more obsessed with Draco Malfoy. That morning he awoke to find Ron under the influence of a very powerful Love Potion, and he took him to Slughorn, only for Ron to end up poisoned. Harry managed to act quickly and save him with a Bezoar. This was enough for Hermione to overcome her animosity toward Ron, and the three became friends again. Ron survived, but was not fit for the upcoming Quidditch match, so he was replaced by McLaggen. This turned out to be a bad choice, as McLaggen accidentally knocked Harry unconscious mid-match. Upon his recovery, Harry had yet another lesson with the Headmaster.
Harry retrieving the true memory from Slughorn
In his lesson with the Headmaster Harry was upbraided by Dumbledore for not completing his assignment, witnessed the young Tom Riddle murder Hepzibah Smith for the famous artefacts (Slytherin's Locket and Hufflepuff's Cup) she owned, and jinx the Defence Against the Dark Arts post at Hogwarts. However, Harry still could not figure out how to obtain the memory and focused on Malfoy. His interest was bordering on obsession. It was Ron who came up with the solution to Harry's dilemma with Slughorn. He suggested Felix Felicis, liquid luck. In the evening, Harry took the potion and not only managed to obtain the memory, but also solved many of his and his friends's problems, including breaking up not only Ginny Weasley and Dean Thomas, but also Ron and his overly clingy girlfriend Lavender Brown.
Harry and Dumbledore preparing to witness Slughorn's true memory
Even though it was after midnight, Harry immediately went to Dumbledore with the new memory. It confirmed Dumbledore's theory that Lord Voldemort had created not one but multiple Dark magical objects called Horcruxes to ensure his immortality. Together, they theorised that the Dark Lord had created Horcruxes out of special objects such as Riddle's diary and Slytherin's locket. Before Harry left, Dumbledore promised to let Harry join him if he found another Horcrux. With the memory found, Harry had only Quidditch and Malfoy on his mind.
Meanwhile, a recovered Katie had returned to the school, causing Harry to ask her who gave her the necklace. She states that someone Imperiused her in the girl's bathroom at The Three Broomstick. In the week before the final Quidditch match, Harry discovered Malfoy crying in the toilet and a duel ensued. With Malfoy on the verge of using an Unforgivable Curse, Harry cast Sectumsempra, a curse with unknown effects that he found in the Half-Blood Prince's book. The curse nearly killed Malfoy and earning Harry indefinite Saturday detentions with Snape and a telling off from McGonagall.
Harry and Ginny kissing for the first time, thus beginning their romantic relationship
Unable to play in the final match, Harry waited with anticipation as he sat through his first detention. When the dentition was finally over he arrived back at Gryffindor Tower and was happy to discover that the team had won the Quidditch Cup without him. Harry having learned previously that Ginny and Dean had split up and having come to terms with his feelings, was still unwilling to ask her out, fearing Ron's reaction. So in the heat of the moment he spontaneously kissed Ginny while over fifty people watched, about whom he had been thinking quite often. He kissed her after she embraced him in the post-match elation; this marked the beginning of their relationship.
On 30 June, Dumbledore led Harry out of the castle in search of a Horcrux. Before they left, Dumbledore made Harry swear to obey any order given him, regardless of his feelings about said order. From Hogsmeade, they Apparated to a sea-side cave, where Tom Riddle had traumatised two young children from his orphanage in his youth. Once inside, Dumbledore attempted to locate the Horcrux's second line of defence. He spoke in a whispered tongue and found a hidden doorway which only opened when it received an offering of blood. The cave was difficult to enter with a toll paid in blood, and to get to the island in the centre of the cave there was only a small boat.
Dumbledore and Harry arriving in the Crystal Cave
They next found themselves in a vast chamber containing an underground lake, with a solitary island at its centre from which a faint green light was visible. After a failed attempt by Harry at Summoning the Horcrux, Dumbledore located a carefully concealed boat that would allow them safe passage across the lake. During the crossing, Harry learned another of the Horcrux's lines of defence. The lake was filled with Inferi (animated corpses of Voldemort's previous victims) which would attack anyone who touched the lake's water. Dumbledore instructed Harry on the use of fire as the weapon of choice against the Inferi, should it become necessary. Inferi fear both light and warmth. The thought of the Inferi hidden below caused Harry unease, but was quickly reassured by Dumbledore.
Harry forcing Dumbledore to continue drinking the emerald potion within the stone basin
Once on the island, Dumbledore found a stone basin from which he could not remove the Horcrux, without drinking the Emerald Potion that the Horcrux resided in. Harry was reluctant that either one of them drink it, as they did not know its effects, but there was no way to avoid it. Dumbledore extracted a promise from Harry that he would force him to drink, no matter how much he tried to persuade him not to. With this promise, Dumbledore drank and Harry watched as Dumbledore was driven out of his mind, but upheld his promise.
Dumbledore drank and experienced intense stomach pains, dehydration and saw visions that mentally tortured him. Harry later thought that Dumbledore saw the duel between him, Aberforth, and Grindelwald. Harry managed to get the potion down Dumbledore's throat. When they finally finished the potion, Dumbledore fell unconscious. When he was revived by Harry he asked for water. Harry attempted to conjure water for Dumbledore with a Water-Making Charm, but this proved ineffective as the water disappeared before Dumbledore could drink it. This being another defence designed by Voldemort. In desperation Harry filled a cup with water from the lake, triggering the army of Inferi that were waiting below.
Harry was overwhelmed by Voldemort's army of Inferi
As he splashed the water on Dumbledore's face, Harry felt something ice cold on his arm and saw a disgusting hand and the Inferi climbing up from the lake. Harry panicked and attempted to fight back with a multitude of spells and curses, including Impedimenta and Sectumsempra. None of the spells worked, since the Inferi were too numerous and could not feel pain. He was overwhelmed and dragged under.
Dumbledore, having regained consciousness, created a ring of fire around them that repelled the Inferi. He pocketed the Locket and drove the Inferi back into the lake while he and Harry escaped in the boat. Harry then proceeded to Apparate them back to Hogsmeade.
After a short broomstick ride through the village they landed atop the Astronomy Tower. Once on the tower they discovered that Hogwarts had been invaded by Death Eaters, but Harry's friends Ron, Hermione, Luna, Neville, and Ginny, who had been ordered by Harry to watch the school lest Malfoy accomplish his nefarious goal. The D.A. members battled alongside the Order of the Phoenix, on the floor below Harry and Dumbledore, with some help from the remainder of Harry's vial of Felix Felicis. Dumbledore had stopped Harry from fighting and frozen him against a wall with a Full Body-Bind Curse, hidden underneath his Invisibility Cloak, so all he could do was helplessly watch and wait. While waiting Harry witnessed the death of Albus Dumbledore at the hands of Severus Snape.
Harry witnessing Albus Dumbledore's death at the hands of Severus Snape
Dumbledore's body plummeted from the tallest tower at Hogwarts. With Dumbledore dead, Harry was free of the spell that petrified him. He immediately set off after Snape, petrifying a Death Eater and seeking revenge. As the Death Eaters made their way out of Hogwarts Castle and on to the grounds, trying to reach the border where they would be able to Apparate again, Harry pursued and faced off against Snape. Harry tried many times to defeat Snape, even weakly attempting the Cruciatus Curse and Snape's own hand crafted spells, all with no effect. In the process, Snape identified himself as the Half-Blood Prince, and escaped Hogwarts with Draco Malfoy and the other Death Eaters.
Harry kneeling net to the body of the recently deceased Albus Dumbledore
Hagrid found Harry and together they managed to extinguish the fire that burnt Hagrid's hut (caused by Thorfinn Rowle) with the Water-Making Charm. Harry then told Hagrid that "Snape killed Dumbledore", but Hagrid refused to believe him. Harry and Hagrid returned to the castle to find people staring at Dumbledore's crippled and lifeless body. Harry moved forward the base of the Astronomy Tower and found his mentor's body lying still upon the ground and Hagrid finally believed him. Harry proceeded to stay next to Dumbledore's body thinking that everything that previously happened that night had been all for naught. Harry started crying over Dumbledore's corpse as well as straightening his half-moon spectacles upon his crooked nose and Harry wiping a trickle of blood from the dead Headmaster's mouth with his (Harry's) own sleeve. Hagrid tried many times to get Harry to move, but did not succeed. It was only when he was comforted by Ginny that Harry finally consented to move.
Harry and Hermione reading the note from Regulus Black inside the fake locket
Harry remembering the locket, took it from Dumbledore's robes. He was absolutely beside himself when he learned it was just a plain bit of jewellery. It was in fact a decoy; there was a note inside the locket that revealed the real Horcrux was taken by someone called 'R.A.B.'. It appeared to Harry that Dumbledore had died in vain and that they had achieved nothing that night. Harry was still processing this information while Ginny escorted him to the Hospital Wing on McGonagall's orders, all the while holding his hand as means of comfort. Later at the end of the year, Harry would inform Hermione and Ron of the decoy locket.
Once in the Hospital Wing he found a injured Neville apparently asleep in bed, as well as: Ron, Hermione, Luna, Tonks, Lupin, Madam Pomfrey, and Ron's brother Bill Weasley. At some point during the battle Bill had been horribly scarred by Fenrir Greyback. When Ginny announced that Dumbledore was dead, everyone appeared horrified. Lupin actually lost control for a moment, while Madam Pomfrey burst into tears and McGonagall was weak-kneed. Harry explained to everyone what had happened on the Astronomy Tower and when he was finished, they were all shocked by what he had said. Harry also revealed Dumbledore's apparent reasons for trusting Snape and allowing him a second chance.
After leaving the hospital wing McGonagall questions Harry about what he and Dumbledore were doing, but Harry under orders from Dumbledore not to tell anyone except Ron and Hermione, refuses. The teachers then discuss the future of Hogwarts, and plans for Dumbledore's funeral. Harry turns his back on the Half-Blood Prince's book, and regrets ever possessing it. Hermione and Ron comfort him, stating that nothing in the book ever indicated that he was capable of murder.
Harry attending Dumbledore's funeral (left side, sixth row)
Following the death of Albus Dumbledore, his funeral was carried out. Harry was disgusted to see that Dolores Umbridge and Rita Skeeter had the nerve to attend his funeral, but he did not want to make a scene at Dumbledore's funeral and bit his tongue. Knowing that he would have to hunt down Voldemort's Horcruxes and, fearing for her safety, Harry took Ginny aside, and broke off their romance. Ginny told him that she did not care about the danger of being his girlfriend, but Harry still thought it was best if the two stopped seeing each other. He then spoke to Ron and Hermione, who committed to forgoing their final year at Hogwarts in order to accompany him, despite his protests.
Harry and Petunia saying their goodbyes to each other
After Albus Dumbledore's death (Dumbledore was the one who began the hunt in July 1996) at the hands of Severus Snape during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, the mission fell to Harry Potter to complete. He had to complete it if he was to finally defeat Voldemort. He was joined by Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley. With four Horcruxes remaining (plus the unknown soul fragment residing inside Harry) the trio made plans.
Harry, Hermione, and Ron all remained committed to their goal to locate and destroy Voldemort's Horcruxes. To protect their families Hermione altered her parents' memories so that they forgot they had a daughter, then instructed them to move to Australia, and with some help from Fred, George, and their father, Ron transfigured the family ghoul to resemble himself with Spattergroit. Harry's aunt and uncle were taken into hiding by several members of the Order of the Phoenix, such as Dedalus Diggle and Hestia Jones, despite many misgivings on the part of the Dursleys.
The seven Potters
Harry stayed at 4 Privet Drive for a time, but the Order of the Phoenix needed to evacuate him to the Burrow before he turned seventeen. On 27 July the Order sent the Dursleys into hiding first. Harry was surprised by Dudley's gratitude towards him for saving his soul and his sincere goodbye. Six out of thirteen of Harry's escorts took Polyjuice Potion to take on Harry's appearance in order to be diversions if they were attacked, despite Harry's protests. Harry also secretly thought that he wished they would respect his body more. Upon leaving, the group was attacked by over thirty cloaked Death Eaters. Harry rode with Hagrid on his godfather Sirius' old motorbike, that had been modified. They were attacked by multiple Death Eaters, including an Imperiused Stan Shunpike and eventually Lord Voldemort himself, who had invented and mastered unsupported flight.
Harry's wand retaliating automatically against Voldemort during the battle
Harry's owl Hedwig was hit by a stray Killing Curse a Death Eater sent Harry's way. When Voldemort caught up with them, Harry thought this was the end, but his wand acted on its own to strike out at the man who was both "kin and mortal enemy", destroying Voldemort's borrowed wand. The chaos ended when Harry and Hagrid passed the protective enchantments placed over the house of Nymphadora Tonks' parents, although Harry was still completely grief-stricken over the death of his beloved owl. After finding Hagrid safe and sound, the pair took a Portkey to the Burrow, where he found a worried Molly and Ginny Weasley standing watch outside in the darkness.
Harry and others safely at the Burrow after participating in the sky battle earlier that night
Harry was relieved to see that Hermione and Ron were fine, but was shocked when Remus Lupin arrived with George Weasley, who had lost an ear. Everyone else arrived safely, but Alastor Moody who had been murdered by Voldemort and Mundungus Fletcher, who had Disapparated as soon as the fight started. Many amongst those gathered at the Burrow believed that they had been betrayed, but Harry refused to believe any of those he loved would sell him to Voldemort, much to the chagrin of Remus Lupin. Harry then stormed outside, where he was struck by a vision of Voldemort torturing Ollivander.
Once settled in at the Burrow, Harry, Ron, and Hermione helped prepare the wedding ceremony of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour. The day before the wedding, the group celebrated Harry's seventeenth birthday. Harry received a watch from Mr and Mrs Weasley, a traditional coming-of-age gift. Ginny also gave him the most passionate kiss they have ever shared. It was something to remember her by in case he "meets some veela" during the Horcrux hunt. Harry responded by saying that "dating opportunities will be thin". The pair was then interrupted by Ron and Hermione.
Scrimgeour giving the first Snitch Harry caught, willed to him by Albus Dumbledore
At the party that night, Minister for Magic Rufus Scrimgeour arrived to release the contents of Albus Dumbledore's will. Harry was left the first Snitch he had ever caught in a Quidditch match and Godric Gryffindor's Sword; Scrimgeour withheld this second gift, claiming that it was a historical magical item and was not exclusively Harry's property. Noting that Harry, Ron, and Hermione were the only students mentioned by name in the will, he asked the trio why this was; the three were unable to give him an answer.
On 1 August, Harry attended Bill and Fleur's wedding disguised as a distant Weasley cousin, Barny Weasley. They used polyjuice potion and the hairs of a red-haired Muggle boy from the village to disguise him. During the party, Harry met Luna Lovegood's father, Xenophilius, (who wore a necklace bearing an Triangle-Eyed symbol) and Viktor Krum, (who dislikes the symbol for it is synonymous with the dark wizard Grindelwald, who attended Krum's school, Durmstrang). The reception was interrupted when the Patronus of Kingsley Shacklebolt arrived and announced the fall of the Ministry of Magic and the death of Rufus Scrimgeour. Chaos erupted and guests started to flee, while Harry and Hermione drew their wands and grabbed Ron before Disapparating to Tottenham Court Road.
The trio duelling Antonin Dolohov and Thorfinn Rowle in Luchino Caffe
There, Hermione revealed that she had planned ahead, packing supplies in her bag, which had an Undetectable Extension Charm on it. Ron changed, and Harry put on his Invisibility Cloak, and the three then entered a nearby café to hang low for a while. Whilst at the café, Ron and Hermione discussed the events of the wedding and Voldemort's coup. They unwittingly broke the Taboo that had been placed on Voldemort's name when the Death Eaters overthrew the Ministry of Magic, alerting Death Eaters Antonin Dolohov and Thorfinn Rowle to their location. After a brief skirmish, the trio defeated the Death Eaters, whose memories Hermione wiped at Harry's suggestion. Harry, Ron, and Hermione then found refuge at 12 Grimmauld Place.
Harry labelled as "Undesirable No. 1" by the Ministry
Having found no leads regarding the Horcruxes over the summer, Harry discovered R.A.B. during the trio's first morning at 12 Grimmauld Place. Once Hermione remembered that the locket had been in the house during its occupation by the Order of the Phoenix, Harry summoned Kreacher, and they learned that it had been stolen by Mundungus Fletcher. When the trio questioned him about it, he revealed that it was now in the possession of Dolores Umbridge. On the same day, Remus Lupin had been to visit. He asked Harry if he could join them, but once Harry found out that Tonks was pregnant, he refused. This caused a temporary rift between the two of them.
For the following month, the trio would take turns under the Invisibility Cloak to watch the Ministry entrance. On 2 September after formulating their plans, they managed to infiltrate the Ministry. Using Polyjuice Potion Harry transformed into Albert Runcorn. Once inside the Ministry it became apparent that the trio did not plan well enough, as they focused all their attention on how to get in and not what they were going to do once inside. Harry searched Umbridge's office but did not find the locket. He did, however, take Moody's eye from her door. Finding Umbridge trying Muggle-borns for "stealing" magic, Hermione managed to trick Umbridge into revealing the locket, and she lied about how she obtained it.
Harry casting his stag Patronus at Dementors, right before capturing Slytherin's locket
Furious, Harry stunned both her and Yaxley. He and Hermione freed the Muggle-borns who were being held by the Muggle-Born Registration Commission, and Hermione conjured a copy of the locket while they took the real thing. They met up with Ron again and escaped, though Yaxley grabbed Hermione's arm while they were Disapparating. She evaded him with a Revulsion Jinx, but the location of 12 Grimmauld Place was revealed to him, and they were forced to abandon it as a hide-out. But instead Hermione took them to the woods that were once the location of the Quidditch World Cup.
After securing Slytherin's locket, the three friends took turns wearing it, to ensure it was not lost. The locket had a negative influence on all of them, straining relations and causing them to all act moody and inclined to get into petty arguments. They overheard a goblin saying that the sword protected by Snape was a fake. They learned that the Sword of Gryffindor in Snape's office was a copy of the real sword, and that they would have to trace the location of the real sword.
Harry and Ron Weasley rowing before Ron abandoned the hunt
Harry and Hermione were excited at knowing what object they could use to destroy Horcruxes, but the locket's negative energy pushed Ron over the edge. Knowing that they now had something they were not close to destroying, Ron and Harry got into a horrible row. Ron accused Harry of not knowing what he was doing and not being very concerned when they learned that Ginny Weasley had been punished for attempting to steal Gryffindor's sword for them, along with Neville Longbottom and Luna Lovegood. Ron then abandoned his friends accusing Hermione of preferring Harry to himself.
Harry and Hermione Apparating away
Ron's departure left both Harry and Hermione depressed. Once he left, Harry and Hermione left the camping site they were last in. Hermione tied her scarf on a tree for a reason. With the locket in hand they Apparated away to Malham Cove.
Harry and Hermione happily dancing, forgetting about life and having a good time
They set up the tent and Harry stared into the sunset before dark. Hermione was listening to music in which Harry noticed and came in. Hermione was even more depressed as her boyfriend left them. Harry offered Hermione a dance in which she took and they danced until the song ended, they were happy for that moment.
Harry and Hermione discussing, they should go to Godric's Hollow
That morning, Harry sat in his tent bed and watched his Golden Snitch and kissed it, revealing it was made from Flesh Memory. He went to Hermione and told her this, to which she replied that she noticed the Sign of the Deathly Hallows in her copy. They decided to head to Godric's Hollow, as Harry wanted to visit his parents' graves, and Hermione had convinced herself that Dumbledore might have entrusted the Sword of Gryffindor to Bathilda Bagshot, a magical historian who lived there and who had been friendly with the Potters and the Dumbledores.
Harry and Hermione visiting James and Lily's grave while in Godric's Hollow
They arrived on Christmas Eve. After seeing the memorial dedicated to his parents and himself, Harry and Hermione searched the graveyard for the Potters's grave and came across the grave of Kendra and Ariana Dumbledore and that of Ignotus Peverell. Harry was filled with regret that Dumbledore had not shared this connection with him. Upon discovering Harry's parents' grave Hermione called out to him and comforted Harry when he reached the grave. After placing a conjured wreath of flowers on his parents' graves, the two then met Bathilda Bagshot, who motioned for them to follow her into her home. Believing Bathilda wanted to give him Gryffindor's Sword, Harry accompanied her upstairs alone when she indicated that Hermione should stay downstairs.
Nagini attacking Harry in Bathilda Bagshot's cottage
Once there, she questioned Harry in what he did not realise was Parseltongue, revealing herself to in fact be Nagini, Voldemort's snake. Voldemort had murdered Bathilda and animated her corpse to hide Nagini, who attacked Harry, biting and coiling herself around Harry. Hermione raced upstairs and repelled the snake, while Harry's scar burned, alerting him to Voldemort's approach. The pair managed to escape, but Harry was knocked unconscious and such a close call with Voldemort caused the connection to re-open and Harry had a vision of his parents' demise. And in the scuffle, Harry's wand was accidentally broken by Hermione's Blasting Curse.
After escaping Voldemort, Harry and Hermione camped out in the Forest of Dean, where Hermione healed Nagini's bite with Dittany. When they were camped out there, Harry and Hermione read parts of Rita Skeeter's biography of Dumbledore, The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore which Hermione had stolen from the home of Bathilda Bagshot. Upon reading, Harry felt betrayed and hurt, because Dumbledore had not shared this information with him. Hermione tried to convince Harry that Dumbledore had his best interests at heart, but Harry became quite disillusioned, doubting whether or not the Headmaster had even cared about him.
Harry being led by a doe Patronus to the hiding place of the Sword of Gryffindor
A couple nights later, while standing guard outside the tent, Harry was lead by a silver doe Patronus to a frozen pool into which someone had placed the Sword of Gryffindor, which leads Harry to strip to his underwear and jump in the pool. While trying to acquire the sword, the locket attempted to strangle him, but he was rescued by Ron, who had returned through the use of his Deluminator.
Ron destroying the locket Horcrux with the Sword of Gryffindor
During the brief intense skirmish, the Horcrux created disturbing imagery, as a last line of defence. Ron was showed his deepest fears, such as spiders and telling him that he was the least loved by his mother who craved a daughter. The final taunt was creating apparitions of Harry and Hermione. The naked Harry and Hermione began to kiss passionately angering Ron, who then destroyed the Horcrux with the sword, casting the two away. As Ron had saved his life, Harry forgave him for leaving and after seeing the Horcrux torture Ron, explained that he had no feelings for Hermione beyond that of a sibling. Hermione, who had been inside the tent during the destruction of the Horcrux, was angry with Ron for a longer period.
The trio speaking with Xenophilius Lovegood at his home, near the village of Ottery St Catchpole
On 30 December at Hermione's request, the three friends travelled to Luna Lovegood's home to question Xenophilius Lovegood. They asked about a triangular symbol Dumbledore had left them to decipher in the book he bequeathed to Hermione. After learning of the Deathly Hallows, Harry, Ron, and Hermione discovered that Xenophilius summoned Death Eaters in an attempt to persuade them to return his abducted daughter. The trio escaped the Death Eaters when Hermione blasted the floor open to show them Harry, but managed to keep Ron's alibi of being sick at home with spattergroit intact by covering him with the Invisibility Cloak.
Hermione arguing with a listless Harry over his obsession with the Deathly Hallows
Harry soon became obsessed by the Deathly Hallows. He spent everyday brooding over the possibilities, forgetting about his responsibilities. With Harry's new found obsession with the Hallows, he became more and more withdrawn and listless. He came to believe that the Resurrection Stone was enclosed within the Golden Snitch bequeathed to him by Dumbledore. He also surmised that Lord Voldemort was abroad in a search for the Elder Wand. This obsession troubled his friends, and with the drop in Harry's attentiveness Ron's leadership qualities flourished.
After listening to a broadcast of Potterwatch around Easter 1998, Harry determined that Voldemort was seeking the Elder Wand, and accidentally broke the Taboo on Voldemort's name. Captured by a gang of Snatchers led by Fenrir Greyback, the trio were questioned about who they were. Hermione had previously hit Harry in the face with a Stinging Hex in an attempt to conceal their true identities, but it all amounted to nothing as the Snatchers then found the Sword of Gryffindor. After Greyback and Scabior realised that they had caught Harry Potter, the trio were taken to Malfoy Manor in Wiltshire. The Snatchers decided to forgo taking Harry to the Ministry, but instead to Voldemort directly.
Bellatrix Lestrange incapacitating Snatchers at Malfoy Manor
When Bellatrix Lestrange learned that Harry had been caught, she immediately sought to summon Voldemort. She planned to do this, until she noticed one of the Snatchers had the Sword of Gryffindor, which was supposed to be in her vault at Gringotts. From her drastic change in tone of voice and her worries that they would all perish, Harry determined that another Horcrux was hidden there, as well. Bellatrix isolated Hermione for interrogation based on the knowledge that she was Muggle-born, stating that she wished to talk "girl to girl with her" and proceeded to brutally torture her with the Cruciatus Curse. While being tortured Hermione lied, claiming that the Sword was just a copy. Harry convinced Griphook (a goblin prisoner) to support this story, knowing that Bellatrix would interrogate Griphook next, as she would want a goblin's opinion on the Sword.
Dobby dropping the chandelier, allowing the prisoners time to escape
In panic as Hermione screamed in pain upstairs, and Ron sobbed at hearing her, Harry called out for help — a cry heard by Aberforth Dumbledore through a fragment of a two-way mirror in the cellar. Aberforth sent Dobby the house-elf to rescue the prisoners. Harry had him take Luna Lovegood, Garrick Ollivander, and Dean Thomas to Shell Cottage, while he and Ron went to rescue Hermione. On the way, they had to fight Peter Pettigrew, whose silver hand strangled him to death when he hesitated to kill Harry, who reminded him that he had once saved his life. A skirmish ensued upstairs, during which Harry took Draco Malfoy's wand from him, and he and Ron saved Hermione and Griphook with Dobby's assistance.
Dobby dying in Harry's arms on the beach at Shell Cottage
As they escaped Malfoy Manor by Apparition, Bellatrix Lestrange threw a silver dagger to where they were Disapparating. Harry was initially relieved to realise he had managed to apparate to Shell Cottage with Ron, Hermione, and Dobby in tow, but was horrified to see the knife protruding from the elf's chest. Harry managed to lie him on the grass, where Dobby collapsed and died in Harry's arms his last words being Harry's name. Luna (whom he saved) told him it was better to close his eyes so he'd be sleeping.
Harry decided that he would not dig Dobby's grave with magic, opting instead to do so manually, using a shovel. This was his way of both repaying Dobby's bravery and ebbing his own grief, as his time, effort, and sweat went into the grave. As he dug, he got glimpses of Lord Voldemort furiously punishing Bellatrix Lestrange, the Malfoys, and the others that were present in the manor for their failure to keep him in their custody and allowing him and the other prisoners to escape.
Harry in front of Dobby's grave after having dug it without the use of magic
Harry, his scar now burning temptingly threatening to have Voldemort's thoughts engulf him, was finally able to learn control of denying Voldemort's entry into his mind. He attributed this to his grief and love for Dobby. While digging the grave, more understanding came to Harry. He realised that though the Deathly Hallows were tempting objects, Dumbledore had tasked him with destroying Horcruxes. He decided to trust Dumbledore, reaffirming his faith in his mentor. During the funeral, Luna Lovegood gave a short eulogy to Dobby, and Harry managed to say his final goodbye to one of his most loyal friends.
Harry speaking with Griphook about what lies within the Lestrange vault at Gringotts
Following the death of Dobby, Harry, Ron, and Hermione stayed at Shell Cottage for some time. During their stay, the trio formed a plan to break into the Lestrange Vault to obtain the Horcrux within, with the help of Griphook. Due to the fact that Griphook would only help in exchange for Godric Gryffindor's Sword, Harry decided to word his request so that the handover would not take place until after Harry had used it to dispose of the remaining Horcruxes.
Harry also found out information regarding the Elder Wand from Ollivander. He learned that his hunch that Elder Wand was real and that Voldemort was going abroad to search for it was correct. Harry also learned some complex wandlore, such as what happens when a wand's allegiance changes to that of another individual and that a wand's allegiance doesn't necessarily have to change hands through murder, as most (including Lord Voldemort) believed with regards to the Elder Wand.
Although feeling guilty for the deception, Harry knew that the sword was their only known weapon against the Horcruxes. The other residents of Shell Cottage could not fail to notice the trio's behaviour. Bill Weasley took Harry aside and advised Harry to be cautious when making deals with Griphook who Harry was increasingly disliking; Bill elaborated some wisdom that only one who lived in the company of goblins, such as himself, could impart. Namely how a goblin saw the maker of an object as the latter's true owner and master, not whoever purchased it from the former. Harry started to defend that if the object in question was bought proper, then the new ownership over it must mean that the manufacturer acknowledged the transfer, rendering the buyer as the new owner.
Bill cut him off, correcting the younger wizard's naive way of thinking, insisting that goblins would merely consider the item "rented" and must therefore be returned to the original maker at the death of the person it was sold to, and wizards and witches habitually passing such down as familial heirlooms, through their generations without intermittent pay per subsequent ownership, basically equated to thievery in a goblin's judgement. Around the same time, Remus Lupin came to Shell Cottage bearing tidings of new birth. He asked Harry to be the godfather of his newborn child, Edward Lupin. It seemed as if the incident between them at 12 Grimmauld Place had never occurred. As Harry thinks about his upcoming heist, he wonders if he's becoming as reckless a godfather to Teddy as Sirius had been to him.
The trio and Griphook left Shell Cottage early on the morning of 1 May to break into Gringotts. Hermione disguised herself as notorious Death Eater Bellatrix Lestrange, using Polyjuice Potion. The goal was to try and fool the goblins at Gringotts into believing that it was really Bellatrix who was entering the vault. The trio had Bellatrix's wand that Harry had captured at Malfoy Manor as further proof for the disguise. Ron was Transfigured to look like a foreign wizard named Dragomir Despard, and Harry had Griphook on his shoulders; both were under the Invisibility Cloak.
Hermione impersonating Bellatrix Lestrange (Harry and Griphook under the Invisibility Cloak)
Their plan proceeded reasonably well; Hermione made a convincing Bellatrix, despite a close encounter with a Death Eater named Travers, whose suspicions seemed to be eased and accompanied the group to Gringotts. Two human guards there had Probity Probes that detected concealment charms, and Harry used a Confundus Charm on them to get Hermione passed unchecked. Inside, the Goblins requested Bellatrix's identification. When Hermione hesitated, one nervously said that her wand was sufficient proof, though Hermione claimed it was new. Harry suspected the goblins knew that Bellatrix's wand was stolen and were looking for an impostor.
Griphook told Harry to use the Imperius Curse, he complied and Bogrod then accepted the wand as being correct. Bogrod requested the Clankers, and then led the trio, Griphook, and Travers into a passageway. The door slammed shut, and Harry sent Travers away to hide. Bogrod, still under the Imperius curse, summoned a cart that descended deep within Gringotts. After many twists and turns, the cart passed through Thief's Downfall, a security waterfall that washed away all illusion charms. When the cart overturned and dumped them out, Hermione and Ron had been reverted to themselves. Griphook believed the other Goblins knew they were impostors, but Harry wanted to continue and cursed Bogrod again.
Harry searching for Hufflepuff's Cup inside the Lestrange Vault
The trio and Griphook found the vault guarded by an aged, half-blind dragon. Griphook subdued it using the Clankers. Hearing pursuit approaching, Harry forced Bogrod to open the vault, which was filled with precious objects. Hermione screamed in pain, and they discovered that the vault's protective charms included the Flagrante and Gemino curses: the contents would multiply and become searing hot every time something was touched. Harry spotted Hufflepuff's Cup, the Horcrux, but it was out of reach. Hermione levitated Harry by the ankle and he snagged the cup by using Gryffindor's sword, as to not be burned by the metal. Meanwhile, Hermione, Ron, Griphook and Bogrod all struggled to stay above the searing-hot rapidly multiplying objects below.
The trio escaping Gringotts on the back of a half-blind Ukrainian Ironbelly
As Harry was setting himself down, he dropped both the sword and the cup. Griphook grabbed the sword, and flipped Hufflepuff's cup up into the air. Harry caught it, ignoring the searing heat. Borne by a treasure avalanche spilling from the now-opened vault, Griphook ran off with Gryffindor's sword, yelling that thieves were in the vault. Harry, Hermione, and Ron hurled curses at the goblin throng. Harry released the half-blind dragon and the three jumped on its back. The freed dragon took flight, and the three blasting holes into the ceiling for it to fly through as they made their escape.
The trio Apparating into Hogsmeade before the start of the final battle
A vision from Voldemort helped Harry realise that the third Horcrux, whilst unbeknownst to him at the time, Ravenclaw's Diadem, remained at Hogwarts. Harry, Ron, and Hermione set out on their final mission to return to the school and obtain the diadem, inadvertently tripping the Caterwauling Charm upon Apparating to Hogsmeade and thereby alerting the waiting Death Eaters to their presence. Due to the trio being under the Invisibility Cloak, however, the Death Eaters resorted to unleashing Dementors into the streets to try to force the intruders out of hiding.
Having no choice, Harry conjured his Patronus to protect himself and his friends, automatically giving away their position and confirming their identities (the Death Eaters having been pre-warned that Harry Potter's Patronus took the form of a stag). As Death Eaters began to close in on the still invisible trio, Aberforth Dumbledore emerged from the Hog's Head, hurriedly telling the three to enter his pub. While Harry, Ron, and Hermione did so, Aberforth remained outside, proclaiming to the Death Eaters that it was he who tripped the alarm (by letting his cat out) and conjured the Patronus to ward off the Dementor threat; mockingly contradicting a Death Eater, saying that what he had seen was a goat Patronus rather than a stag. The incensed Death Eaters believed this and retreated.
D.A. members in the Room of Requirement welcoming Harry back on 1 May
After Aberforth re-entered his pub and home, he scolded them for coming to Hogsmeade advising them to leave the country. After Harry engaged in a brief and fierce argument with him, he led the grateful trio directly into Hogwarts through a secret entrance behind the portrait of his deceased sister, Ariana Dumbledore. Neville Longbottom (acting as their escort) then guided them into the Room of Requirement, where they were enthusiastically greeted by the reconstituted Dumbledore's Army; most of which were beaten and bruised, yet ready to fight the Death Eaters controlling the school. Harry tried to tell them that he, Ron, and Hermione only returned to find something, but Neville contacted other allies with a call to arms. Harry was initially reluctant to allow the others to help, as he had developed trust issues. But in an attempt to be a better man than Dumbledore (whom he feared he was turning into) and after some discussion with Ron and Hermione, he allowed it.
Harry and Luna entering Ravenclaw Tower
Harry hesitantly asked the room at large if they had ever heard of any sort of legendary artefact belonging to one of the Founders of Hogwarts. Luna Lovegood then elaborated on the fabled Diadem of Ravenclaw, pronouncing that a statue in Ravenclaw Tower depicted Rowena Ravenclaw wearing a diadem. Harry, having no idea of what the diadem looked like, was led by Luna to the Ravenclaw Common Room to observe the statue. Here the pair were ambushed by Alecto Carrow who pressed her Dark Mark immediately upon noticing Harry, summoning Voldemort, before Luna stunned her from under the Invisibility Cloak. Amycus Carrow attempted to force his way through the common room door, designed only to open after the door-knocker's question was correctly answered, by seeking the help of Minerva McGonagall, who easily allowed him entry by solving the door's riddle herself; by that time, Harry had managed to rejoin Luna under the Invisibility Cloak.
Amycus (in fear of his master's wrath) suggested framing Alecto's apparently mistaken summoning of the former on the Ravenclaw students; as he did, he spontaneously devised a lie that made it seem as though the students had forced Alecto to touch her Dark Mark at wand-point. In her outrage, McGonagall strongly insinuated that Amycus was a coward for proposing such an idea and that she would not allow it. Carrow spat in McGonagall's face in retaliation, utterly enraging Harry who suddenly revealed himself while momentarily casting the Cruciatus Curse on the surprised Carrow. The curse sent Amycus flying backwards into the wall where he crumpled and fell unconscious. Harry then told McGonagall about the mission Dumbledore had left him, and she offered to hold Voldemort and his invading forces off, buying him the time he needed to search for the Horcrux. All students of age, the D.A., and the members of the Order of the Phoenix who had arrived to fight prepared themselves for the impending siege. The Battle of Hogwarts began as Voldemort and his army approached the outer boundaries of the school.
McGonagall, Mrs Weasley, and the suits of armour preparing for battle
On 2 May, Lord Voldemort upon arrival at Hogwarts, demanded that the school turn over Harry, and the Battle of Hogwarts began. Harry realised that the positioning of Alecto Carrow in Ravenclaw Tower confirmed the Horcrux's identity. It was the lost diadem of Ravenclaw. After thinking on it for some seconds, he went to ask the Grey Lady about the diadem. From her information, Harry surmised that the Horcrux had been hidden in the Room of Requirement. Harry, in the meantime, was worried about Hermione and Ron, who seemed to have disappeared. They had gone into the Chamber of Secrets, where Hermione destroyed Helga Hufflepuff's Cup with basilisk fangs, which were one of the few weapons able to destroy Horcruxes.
The trio escaping from Fiendfyre that was cast by Vincent Crabbe
The trio quickly headed for the Room of Requirement where Harry remembered seeing the Diadem the previous year. However, Draco Malfoy, Vincent Crabbe, and Gregory Goyle ambushed them. After a skirmish, the entire room was destroyed by the cursed fire Crabbe unleashed but could not control. Harry managed to fly himself and Malfoy out, while Ron and Hermione grabbed Goyle, but Crabbe perished in the flames that also destroyed the diadem. With one Horcrux remaining, Harry, Ron, and Hermione continued their pursuit of Nagini, but before they could go search for it, they witnessed the death of Fred Weasley. This incensed Ron and Harry, but Hermione reminded them that only they could finish Voldemort and that to obtain the final Horcrux they would have to do their share of fighting.
They fought their way to the Shrieking Shack. Along the way, Harry witnessed many scenes of horror. On the grounds, Voldemort's Dementors were waiting. After having seen so much pain and death, Harry could not summon the happiness required to conjure a Patronus. In fact, Harry almost welcomed the oblivion that would come with the Dementor's Kiss. But, after seeing the patronuses conjured by Luna Lovegood, Ernie Macmillan, and Seamus Finnigan, Harry summoned the will to conjure his and managed to drive the Dementors away.
Snape's last moments, during which he gave Harry his memories
Once the trio arrived at the Shrieking Shack, they witnessed Voldemort order Nagini to kill Snape, as he believed that Snape was preventing him from being the true owner of the Elder Wand. Dumbledore was the previous owner of the wand, and as Snape killed him, Voldemort believes with Snape's demise, he will finally gain true mastery of the wand. Before he died, Snape gave Harry memories to view in the Pensieve and asked him to look into his eyes. Upon returning to the castle, Harry saw the corpses of Remus Lupin and Nymphadora Tonks near Fred's, and he felt devastated. He left his friends behind to use Albus Dumbledore's Pensieve, welcoming the time in another's head to distract him from what was happening in his own.
Harry using Dumbledore's Pensieve to view Snape's memories during the one-hour armistice
During a one-hour ceasefire, Harry viewed the memories given by a dying Snape, which revealed to him that he had inadvertently been turned into a Horcrux himself. This occurred when Voldemort attempted to murder him as a baby. Because Lily Potter's loving sacrifice made Voldemort's Killing Curse rebound and a fragment of his soul latched itself onto the only living thing it could find: Harry himself. This led to the awful truth being revelled, that Voldemort had to kill him in order to be rendered mortal. Harry was unwillingly tethering Voldemort to life.
Harry also learned that Snape was, all along, with Dumbledore because he loved Lily Evans, since before they started school. It was clear that Harry's life span had always been determined by how long it took to get rid of the Horcruxes, and that it was an elegant plan not to waste any more lives but to give the tasks to the boy who had already been marked for death, and whose death would not be tragic but simply another blow against Voldemort. Heavy of heart, Harry courageously slipped off on his own to carry out this dreadful task. He felt ghostly as he strode through the castle's empty halls, feeling as if he was already dead.
As Harry passed the Great Hall, he could not see Hermione, Ron, or the other Weasleys, nor Luna. He felt he would have given anything for one last look at them, but then he thought he would never be able to stop looking. He also came to realise that Luna had become one of his closest and dearest friends. During his way to Voldemort, he saw the corpse of Colin Creevey, who snuck back into the castle to fight despite being underage and remarked that Colin looked "tiny in death". Harry in a moments decision told Neville to slay Nagini, if he could, as Ron and Hermione might be too busy to do so. He passed Ginny, who was comforting a small girl, and almost wished she could have seen him, but under the Invisibility Cloak, this was impossible. As he passed Hagrid's hut on the grounds, he emotionally remembered his trips there, particularly rock cakes, Ron vomiting slugs, and baby dragon Norbert.
Harry willingly letting Voldemort hit him with the Killing Curse
Harry then entered the Forbidden Forest, where he managed to open the Golden Snitch, which said on it, "I open at the close"; and the words to open it were, "I'm about to die"; this revealed the Resurrection Stone contained within. Harry used it to speak to the spirits of his parents, Sirius Black, and Remus Lupin, who gave him comfort and courage before he met Voldemort and offered to shield him from the Dementors. They set off, and the Dementor's chill did not overcome him; his companions acted like Patronuses, and Harry continued deeper in the forest to find Voldemort. As Harry approached the Death Eater camp, he dropped the Resurrection Stone. Harry offered no resistance as Voldemort struck him with the Killing Curse. His last thoughts were of Ginny: her red hair, blazing looks, and the feel of her lips upon his before everything went black.
However, the "death" he met was not permanent: the blood Voldemort had taken from Harry to restore his physical form in 1995 still contained the Bond of Blood, anchoring him to life and protecting Harry from Voldemort's curse, and his willingness to die triggered protections on the people of Hogwarts similar to the protections he received from his mother's sacrifice. Also, since he had part of Voldemort's soul in him, Voldemort's Killing Curse unknowingly destroyed the part of Voldemort's soul, leaving one Horcrux left.
Harry in the Limbo speaking with a deceased Albus Dumbledore
Harry entered a state of limbo, where he met the spirit of Albus Dumbledore and the piece of Voldemort's soul that had just been destroyed. Dumbledore explained everything to Harry saying that he had "no more secrets from Harry", with Harry seeing a side of Dumbledore that no one else ever had. After reconciling with his mentor, Harry made the choice to return to the physical world. He had the option of boarding a train and continuing to the afterlife with Dumbledore.
Narcissa Malfoy telling Voldemort and the gathered Death Eaters that Harry was "dead"
Harry woke up, but feigned death. He was assisted in this by Narcissa Malfoy, who had secretly turned against Voldemort by telling him Harry was dead in order to protect her son, because she knew the only way she would be permitted to enter Hogwarts was with the rest of the Death Eaters in their victory march. Voldemort then triumphantly disgraced Harry's "dead" body with the Cruciatus Curse then forced Hagrid to carry Harry's body back to Hogwarts, proclaiming Harry dead and demanding surrender. At first, the surviving fighters were heartbroken, especially Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Professor McGonagall. They screamed abuse at the Death Eaters in anger, remaining defiant. Harry's apparent death had spurred the defenders of Hogwarts on.
Neville Longbottom courageously stood up to Voldemort, and when the latter offered Neville a rank in his Death Eater society, Neville proudly refused and screamed to the high heavens, "Dumbledore's Army!" Voldemort cast the Full Body-Bind Curse, then Summoned the Sorting Hat and placed it upon Neville's head. After he announced that there would be no houses and that the school colours would be those loyal to Salazar Slytherin, he caused the hat to burst into flames. As Neville cried in pain, a distant uproar came from the direction of the school boundaries. Centaurs, thestrals, Buckbeak the hippogriff, Hagrid's half brother Grawp, and the families of the Hogwarts students who remained to fight, plus the shop and home keepers of Hogsmeade joined the fight with a flourish.
Voldemort gloating over Harry's 'death', Neville slaying Nagini, and the second half of the battle breaking out
This distracted Voldemort and his Death Eaters, and Neville was able to pull off the Sorting Hat, and from its depths he received the Sword of Gryffindor and sliced off Nagini's head in one swift, fluid motion. Harry slipped away in the ensuing mêlée under the Invisibility Cloak. Death Eaters started to fold under sheer weight of numbers as the house-elves in the kitchens joined the battle, with Kreacher at its front, declaring war against the Dark Lord in the name of brave Regulus Black. Using his Invisibility Cloak, Harry protected the defenders of Hogwarts from attack, deflecting Voldemort's curses. Soon, only Voldemort and Bellatrix Lestrange were the only two remaining and fighting, with Voldemort duelling McGonagall, Slughorn, and Kingsley at once, and Bellatrix duelling Hermione, Luna, and Ginny. Harry was torn between the two until he saw a Killing Curse aimed at Ginny, the latter missing death by a mere inch.
Harry redirected his path to Bellatrix, until being roughly knocked aside by Molly Weasley, who duelled and ultimately killed Bellatrix. Voldemort's fury at the fall of his last, best lieutenant exploded with the force of a bomb and Harry turned in to see McGonagall, Slughorn, and Kingsley blasted backwards in pain and Voldemort directing his wand at Molly. Harry then cast a Shield Charm to protect her from Voldemort's wrath, revealing himself for the final duel.
Harry's final defeat of Lord Voldemort and the end of the Second Wizarding War
Unbeknownst to Voldemort, mastery of the Elder Wand, which he had stolen from Dumbledore's grave, had not been taken from Dumbledore by Snape, but by Draco Malfoy, because Draco had disarmed Dumbledore on the night of his murder, before Snape killed him. Thus, when Harry had disarmed Malfoy in Malfoy Manor weeks earlier, he had become the true master of the Elder Wand.
When Harry and Voldemort faced off for the last time, Harry tried to tell him this and about the other mistakes he had made. Harry also asked him to feel some remorse for his actions, which Voldemort instantly rejected. Voldemort cast the Killing Curse, and Harry countered with the Disarming Charm. The Elder Wand refused to attack its master, and the Killing Curse rebounded, destroying Voldemort once and for all, as the most powerful wand in the world fell into the hands of its true master at last.
The battle-worn trio in the morning after the battle
Immediately, Harry was surrounded by overjoyed fellow fighters; Hermione and Ron reached him first, and then Ginny, Neville, and Luna. Victory celebrations began and Harry was an indispensable part of the grief and celebration.
The trio visited Albus Dumbledore's portrait, and along the way he explained everything to his two best friends. Harry decided to prevent the Deathly Hallows from ever being reunited again by keeping the Cloak of Invisibility, leaving the Resurrection Stone where it lay in the Forbidden Forest, and returning the Elder Wand to Dumbledore's grave, but not before using it to fix his wand.
When Voldemort destroyed the piece of his soul residing in Harry, Harry lost the ability to speak Parseltongue. It is possible, however, that he regained the ability later.
Harry and Ginny Potter with their three children
Harry ensured that Severus Snape's portrait was hung in the Headmaster's office at Hogwarts. He also made occasional visits to the school to give lectures to the students on Defence Against the Dark Arts. At some point, the trio were featured on Chocolate Frog Cards for their accomplishments.
Harry was also on "Christmas card" terms with his cousin Dudley Dursley and his family, and occasionally visited him, which were occasions dreaded by his own children. Harry also made peace with his former rival Draco Malfoy, something that his father and his friends were never able to do with Severus Snape. They were civil towards each other; however, their schoolboy enmity meant that they were still not friends at this stage.
Also following the war, he aided in the care of his godson, Teddy Lupin, thus fulfilling the role that his own godfather, Sirius Black, never got to play. Harry and Teddy eventually became very close. Harry's children commented that they wanted Teddy to move in with the family, Harry mentioned that Teddy had already been coming to their home for dinner four times a week, and that he was practically living with them as it was. The Potters were also thrilled at the idea that Teddy, who was seen snogging Victoire Weasley (the eldest daughter of Bill and Fleur Weasley) might officially become a part of their family.
Harry Potter as a young Auror
At the end of the Second Wizarding War, Harry was recruited by the new Minister for Magic Kingsley Shacklebolt and became an Auror at the British Ministry of Magic. Kingsley permitted those who had fought in the final battle to become Aurors without getting their N.E.W.T.s, as surviving such a battle satisfied the skill and character requirements.
Along with his friend Ron Weasley, Harry was considered an expert and helped reform and revolutionise the Auror department and the rest of the Ministry, along with Hermione Granger, who became a high ranking official in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. In 2007, Harry became the Head of the Auror Office at the age of 26 or 27.
Harry meeting the student at King's Cross
On 1 September 2008, Harry arrived at the King's Cross Station and guided an unidentified student to the barrier that connected to Platform Nine and Three-Quarters. Later in the school year, he visited Neville Longbottom at Hogwarts and met the same student, who, despite hearing the name "Harry", did not realise who he really was until he left.
In 2010, when third-year students went to Hogsmeade for the first time, Harry was also there with Rubeus Hagrid, drinking Butterbeer in the Three Broomsticks Inn. When Harry choked on it, Hagrid patted him on the back.
Harry and the student on the Quidditch pitch
At some point later, Harry returned to Hogwarts to give a Defence Against the Dark Arts lecture and met the same student again in the Great Hall. They went to the Quidditch pitch and the Viaduct Courtyard and talked about their memories.
Harry with others at the end of the battle
When Hogwarts was under attack by Dementors and other Dark creatures, Harry returned to the school and cast the final Patronus Charm that ended the battle. He also saw individuals by the forests wearing white masks, who he suspected may have been the culprits of the attacks. He then talked to the students and staff and, as an Auror, promised to look into the case properly.
Hermione and Harry meeting the student at Zonko's
Harry was also invited by George Weasley to help sell his joke products, competing against George's brother Ron who preferred more conventional ones. George wrote Harry's identity of the "Chosen One" into the slogan he prepared for Harry. Though Ron was Harry's best friend, George pointed out that since Harry was the funder of their joke shop, he needed to think less about the "best friends" stuff. George convinced Harry that new products were likely to attract more customers. When they were doing a sale at Zonko's Joke Shop, Harry was chatting with Hermione, who was Ron's helper, when they met the unidentified student and talked about these events. The student asked if this was purely them doing business, but Harry admitted he really was fed up with classical jokes, saying that anyone who had been bitten by a Nose-Biting Teacup dozens of times would not be tricked again, which he believed was the reason why Fred and George founded their shop so that they could invent new products, and succeeded in doing so, making their products very popular in the market. He then gave the student some tokens to buy some products and see for themselves.
On Horace Slughorn's birthday, Harry went back to Hogwarts and gave him a cake that smelt like pineapple. They recalled Harry's mother Lily giving him Francis, and were possibly joined by the unidentified student.
Harry and his children at the 2014 Quidditch World Cup
Harry had married Ginny likely sometime before 2005, but certainly by 2014. By 2017, the couple had three children of their own: two sons James Sirius and Albus Severus, and one daughter Lily Luna. Harry attended the final of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup in early July in the Patagonian Desert. Harry, James, and Albus joined Ginny Potter, who had been in Patagonia since the start of the Cup, in her capacity of special Quidditch correspondent to the Daily Prophet.
Harry along with his family (including Teddy Lupin) and Dumbledore's Army were granted access to the VIP section of the campsite. Harry embraced Viktor Krum, who was competing again after being retired for a few years, upon meeting him and introduced him to his sons, James and Albus. He supported Bulgaria in the match together with the rest of his family (save for Albus) and looked "emotional" when Viktor Krum and his team had won the match. While at the game Harry also sported a nasty cut over his right cheekbone, which was a result of his top-secret work for the British Auror Office.
On 31 July 2014, Rita Skeeter launched a book at Flourish and Blotts titled Dumbledore's Army: The Dark Side of the Demob, regarding the lives of the members of Dumbledore's Army. The book according to Rita's description, seemed to focus on the D.A. members "imperfections". Harry and Ginny were featured on the front cover, Harry trying to hide their faces behind his hand. Rita also wrote a mostly fictionalised biography about Harry, with an unnamed title.
Harry with his family at King's Cross Station in 2017 escorting his sons to Platform 9¾
On 1 September 2017, Harry and Ginny took their three children to King's Cross Station to see James and Albus off to Hogwarts. There, they met Ron and Hermione and their two children, Harry's niece Rose and nephew Hugo. When Albus expressed a fear that he might be Sorted into Slytherin House, Harry told his son that Albus was named after two Hogwarts Headmasters of whom one was a Slytherin and "probably the bravest man [he] ever knew". Harry assured him that his parents would be proud of him regardless of where he was Sorted. He also told him that the Sorting Hat would take his preferences into consideration, which happened to him when he was being Sorted. This was a secret he had never shared with his other children.
When Harry picked Albus up from King's Cross, who had returned from a year at Hogwarts, he was surprised to find Albus distant and colder. This distance was in direct response to the pressure Albus felt regarding Harry's legacy and the expectations that others put on him because of it. Albus and Scorpius Malfoy became fast friends during the year, as they were kindred spirits — they both carry a burden stemming from their family identity and feel that they are misfits and "losers" in comparison with the other students at Hogwarts. Harry did not like this and he questioned why Albus was content to have only the one friend. Their relationship would stay strained for the next couple of years to come.
Harry seeing James, Lily, and Rose off to Hogwarts, while Albus stood off to the side
In September 2018, Harry took Albus to King's Cross again. He was hurt when Albus told him he wanted to be alone. This stemmed from all the pedestrians watching the two, Albus felt as though they were watching the famous Harry Potter and "his disappointing son". Harry told him not to be bothered by people looking and thought his friendship with Scorpius Malfoy, the child of his rival, was the reason why Albus wanted nothing to do with him. Harry then demanded Albus sever their friendship, but his son refused.
In September 2019, Harry took Albus to King's Cross yet again where he gave Albus the permission slip he needed to visit Hogsmeade. Albus destroyed the slip by burning it, stating that he had no wish to go to Hogsmeade and left his father behind. This in turn caused Harry to become angry with him. Their father-son relationship continued to deteriorate, going from bad to worse.
By late summer of 2020, Harry had been made Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. After hearing a rumour about an illegal and very powerful Time-Turner, Harry and his team of Aurors raided the Nott residence and confiscated it. Harry defeated Nott in a duel and then arrested him. He was arrested for the illegal possession of an unregistered and advanced Time-Turner.
Nott had created at least two Time-Turners for Lucius Malfoy, who was paying him for his services. The prototype, which was restricted by a boundary of five minutes, was seized by Potter and later used by his son to travel to the past. The improved Time-Turner, which gleamed gold and allowed the traveller to stay in the past for an unlimited time, was kept by Lucius who never used it.
Harry turned the prototype Time-Turner over to Hermione (the Minister for Magic) for safekeeping. While in his paper laden workoffice, he and Hermione spoke about recent activity among Voldemort's former allies and how action must be taken. They discuess the "mountain trolls riding Graphorns through Hungary, giants with winged tattoos on their backs walking through the Greek Seas, and the werewolves that have gone entirely underground".
Harry gifting Albus with his old baby blanket
Harry was later visited at home by Amos Diggory, who had heard he might have the Time-Turner. Whom he supposedly learned this information from is unknown. While Albus and Delphi Diggory (who claimed to be Amos' carer and niece) listened in, Amos demanded Harry go back in time and save Cedric. Amos proceeded to tell Harry that Cedric was more then a spare and that he deserved a chance to life a full life. However, Harry refused due to the implications of intervening greatly with the past, as changing the past can have severe consequences on the future. This caused Amos to react negatively, calling Harry cold. Later that night Harry attempted to reconcile with Albus.
Harry's relationship with Albus had strained increasingly since he had left for Hogwarts. In an effort to mend things, Harry spoke to Albus and tried to give him the old baby blanket he received from his mother Lily. He did this in the hope a reminder of what happened would make him change his behaviour. This was a significant and sentimental gift on Harry's part, as it was the only physical piece of his mother that he had. When Albus rejected the gift, it led to an argument in which they both expressed the wish that they were not related. Harry regretted what he said, but it was too late to take it back.
Harry's awoken from a nightmare after his scar pains him for the first time in many years
Harry began to experience nightmares and pains in his scar, something that he had not experienced since his final defeat of Voldemort. Ginny tried to comfort him and proceeded to ask what was wrong. When Harry explained, they decided to let Hermione know. Harry took his scar hurting to be an ominous sign and it left him with many worries concerning his son and the outcome of the future.
He and Hermione held a public meeting, but the community was not convinced there is a threat, as they were not willing to accept that danger was once again imminent. Draco accused Harry of only wanting his name in the papers and proceeded to storm out of the public meeting. Later on Harry, Ginny, and Draco then learnt that Albus and Scorpius were missing. This prompted Draco to start a duel with Harry, Ginny was quick to interrupt it, before it got out of hand. They had decided to retrieve the Time-Turner and help Amos save Cedric. Ginny concluded Albus ran away after his argument with Harry, and Draco was upset that Scorpius had been pulled into their family issues.
Albus and Scorpius's time-travelling antics created two separate alternate timelines. This was something that could have disastrous effects for everyone. In one, Harry received a dream revealing Albus's location in the Forbidden Forest. As he and the others searched, Harry came across the centaur Bane. Bane warned him that a "dark cloud" haunted Albus. He took this "dark cloud" to mean Scorpius and his doubts regarding his son's friendship with him strengthened even more. He, Ron, and Ginny found the boys just after they return from the past. Scorpius was uninjured, but Albus sustained a broken arm.
Harry conversing with the portrait of Albus Dumbledore
Albus was brought to the school's hospital wing, where Harry conversed with a portrait of Albus Dumbledore. After Harry aired decades of pent-up emotion left over from the horrors of his childhood and Dumbledore reassuring him he did what he though was best for Harry's well being at the time, the portrait advised him to see Albus as he is. Harry demanded that Albus break off his association with Scorpius. He even went so far as to bully Headmistress Minerva McGonagall into using the Marauder's Map to keep them apart. This was something that he would not normally do. Harry's worry for his son had intensified so much that it blinded him to the bigger picture.
When Albus and Scorpius went time travelling again, Harry and Ginny received a visit from Draco. He and Harry argued about their children, which resulted in a premature wizards' duel. When Ginny intervened and reminded them their children were missing, Draco surprised them by explaining how lonely he was at Hogwarts and how lucky Harry was to have such great friendships.
Harry apologising to Professor McGonagall and attempting to locate the boys
Harry and Draco finally gained a mutual respect for one another, and looked upon each other as friends. When Draco speaks of the great bond and sacrifices he has made for Scorpius and his late wife, Harry finally realised he was dangerously isolating Albus. They returned to Hogwarts, where Harry apologised to Professor McGonagall and they attempted to locate the boys, ultimately discovering that they had the Time-Turner.
However, in the other timeline, Albus and Scorpius had created a world where Harry had died at the Battle of Hogwarts. Fortunately, with the help of the alternate Hermione, Ron and Severus Snape, Scorpius managed to salvage the original timeline and returned both Harry, and Albus to life. Harry visited Albus in his dormitory where despite his anger, he manages to plant the seed for a reconciliation with Albus.
Harry visiting Albus in the Hospital Wing and the two beginning to reconcile
Later, Harry and his friends learn that Albus and Scorpius were missing again and were last seen with Delphi. They went to see Amos to find out what he knows, and found out he had been Confunded by Delphi into believing she was his niece and carer.
Searching the room for clues to find out Delphi's true identity, they stumbled upon a prophecy that, if fulfilled, would enable the return of Voldemort, and realised Delphi's true identity as Voldemort's secret daughter with Bellatrix Lestrange. However, since they did not know where in time Delphi, Albus, and Scorpius were, they could only bide their time and wait.
At home, Harry looked at the blanket he had tried to give Albus. He noticed writing on it, and found out it was a message sent by Albus from the past. He and Ginny noticed the date, being 30 October, 1981 — one day before the night that Voldemort murdered Harry's parents. They alerted Ron and Hermione. Draco, who joined in, secretly revealed to them that his family had a Time-Turner that would be more potent and valuable than the one seized by the Ministry, which was merely a prototype and thus not as desirable to a true Death Eater.
Harry, Ron, Draco, and others travelling back in time to assist Albus and Scorpius
They travelled back in time to join Albus and Scorpius. However, under Ginny's prodding, they realised that Delphi did not to want to kill baby Harry, but rather to stop Voldemort from doing so in the hope he would live and his reign would continue. Delphi thought she could make her father stronger as he would know love when he met her, which its lacking was what had originally led to his downfall.
Everyone agreed they had to transfigure Harry to look like Voldemort in the hope that they could fool Delphi and hinder her in saving the real Voldemort. They picked Harry because he not only knew Voldemort well through the connection they shared when he was a Horcrux, but he now also understood Parseltongue again.
Delphi pleaded with her "father" to recognise her, which Harry managed before the transfiguration spell came undone. However, when Delphi sees she had been set up, she engaged in a fierce duel with Harry, who is later joined by his friends and Albus. They managed to subdue her and she pleaded that she only wants to know her father. A surprised Harry explained that this would not be possible; they cannot change the past.
Upon hearing the real Voldemort arrive to kill Harry's parents, Delphi tried calling out to him, but Hermione and Malfoy silenced her and sent her back to present day. Harry decided to watch the scene of his parents' murder once more, with Albus by his side, to provide a sense of closure for them. They later returned to the present when a devastated Hagrid arrived at the scene to bring Harry to the Dursleys.
Back at Hogwarts, Albus was asked by Harry to join him one afternoon for a hike up a steep hill. Harry revealed that he had brought Albus to Cedric Diggory's grave, which he regularly visited so he could apologise for his role in his death.
At some point during Kingsley's tenure as Minister Harry helped advance werewolf rights. He did this by setting up an outreach programme. He also proposed providing free Wolfsbane Potions to any werewolf who wanted the potion. However, his Wolfsbane proposal never came to fruition, as politics and protocols prevented it from happening.
Shortly after, Harry was made the leader of the members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force. This task force was an emergency response team established by the International Confederation of Wizards with the help of the British Ministry of Magic to deal with a series of large-scale breaches of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy known as the Calamity. He congratulated those who choose the career of an Auror, but warned them that it could either be the best or worst job depending on their abilities.
Harry would introduce to the Aurors the common Weakening Hex, which lowers the damage their enemies cause. He would also teach and supervise practising duelling sessions, during which he outmatch them. However, their valiance allowed them to come out with increased power in their spells. For those pursuing a profession as Magizoologists, Harry gave them a lesson on maintaining confidence that eventually resulted in him teaching them the Bravery Charm.
After an article about his work with the Task Force was published in the Daily Prophet, several of Harry's belongings became foundables. Hermione suspected that this had to do with the article.
In the spring of 2021, The Unforgivable threatened Harry and Hermione after the two began wrenching control of Calamity surges away from the cabal. The two feared that their children would be targeted, but Harry insisted on continuing to fight against the Unforgivable. Harry redirected a Calamity surge and controlled it using memories of the Marauders. When Minerva McGonagall was uncharacteristically late in reporting to the SOS Task Force, Constance Pickering, Harry, and Hermione feared she had been attacked. By April, it became apparent that while Minerva was unharmed, Ginny had been attacked and Ron had been abducted.
Following their attack on Ginny and Ron, the Unforgivable unleashed a surge of Dragon Adversaries. While this was disastrous, it allowed Harry to tap into somebody's memory of being forced to abduct Ron. Shortly after, the Unforgivable unleashed a surge of Foundables related to Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes where Ron worked. While the Unforgivable succeeded in intimidating Harry and Hermione, Harry even enlisted the help of MACUSA in the hopes of finding his best friend, this attack only made Hermione even more determined to bring the cabal to justice. The Unforgivable began a campaign of harassment and manipulation to secure their position preceding negotiations for Ron's returns, including implanting false memories in Molly of Ron crying and begging her to tell Harry and Hermione to listen to the Unforgivable so that he could return home. Molly instead instructed Hermione to "give them Hell".
By the end of April, the Unforgivable had delivered their list of demands via notes dispatched within Foundables. In exchange for Ron's safe return, they not only wanted full command of the Calamity but for London Five victim Kit Gerrard and the defector informant Flavius Flint to be delivered to them. Hermione decided that she and Constance should use Polyjuice Potion to take the places of Gerrard and Flint as a means to infiltrate the Unforgivable, with Harry delivering them in exchange for Ron. It seemed the Unforgivable were aware of this deception, as well as where the Ministry's defences were weakest, however.
Whilst duelling against members of the cabal, Constance was hit with a Blasting Curse but luckily came away with only mild burns. While Ron was recovering, albeit unconscious, the real Flavius and Kit were taken. When Constance returned from having her injuries healed at St Mungo's, she reported that Ron had woken up and his memories had been completely Obliviated, to the point where he could not even recognise his wife. Hermione wondered if everything, including rescuing Ron, had been part of the cabal's plans all along. She and Harry considered the possibility of a mole in the Ministry or a Legilimens among the Unforgivable's ranks.
In May 2021, Calamity surges surrounding baby magical creatures created the impression that the Unforgivable were involved in illegal poaching and trading of rare beasts. Fragments of a note apparently from Grim Fawley contained co-ordinates to a location in Cape Town, where Harry led a team of Aurors in order to stop a potential auction, and to find members of the cabal. Unfortunately, no auction took place, adding weight to the theory of a mole in the Ministry. Hermione used Truth Serum then erasing their memories of being interrogated by her. This method outed Gareth Greengrass as not only the mole but a high ranking member of the Unforgivable.
Following his detention, Gareth Greengrass repeatedly proclaimed innocence and his colleagues in the Department of Mysteries called for his release, even going so far as to accuse Harry and Hermione of using the Imperius Curse to obtain a false confession. During this time, an Auror discovered that Gareth's strange habit of delivering Interdepartmental Memos via owl was part of a ruse. Gareth's owl was a Transfigured potions cabinet containing Polyjuice Potion. When tested, those who imbibed the potions turned into Hermione  and the editor-in-chief of the Daily Prophet, linking Gareth Greengrass to the abduction of Ron and the attempted abduction of Ginny. A complication arose, however, when it became apparent one of the Polyjuice Potions had been tampered with during the month that Gareth was detained. Hermione concluded that this was part of an escape attempt and alerted Harry.
Gareth Greengrass was eventually caught out and taken into custody in an official capacity, but remained tight-lipped until Harry rose the issue of Gareth's daughter. It was discovered that Cereus Greengrass suffered a blood malediction. Gareth and Harry formed an Unbreakable Vow, sealed by Constance Pickering, whereby Harry would find a cure for Gareth's daughter and in turn Gareth would help Harry uncover the identities of the Unforgivable. Harry visited St Mungo's and placed a large donation, securing special care for Cereus. By the time he returned, however, Gareth Greengrass was dead.
Harry in his second year, age 12
Harry was a near-spitting image of his father, having inherited his untidy jet-black hair. However, his almond-shaped startlingly green eyes were identical to those of his mother. This strong resemblance was often remarked on by those who had known his parents.
Harry's physique as a boy was described as "small and skinny", with a thin face and knobbly knees. This skinniness was due to his poor quality of life in his childhood. Despite the neglect he suffered, Harry seems to have grown at the same rate as James. When he was fifteen he was within an inch of James at the same age, and when he was seventeen he was exactly the same height his father was, and James was often described as tall. Harry was so much like his father that Harry mistook his future self for him while saving Sirius's life from the Dementors, although his father was then dead.
Harry wore round-rimmed glasses, peculiarly similar to his father's glasses. During his time hunting Voldemort's Horcruxes, Harry's black hair grew shoulder length as was described when he saw his reflection in Malfoy Manor. This was due to his preoccupation with the hunt for the Horcruxes and his lack of interest in his physical appearance, and it was the longest his hair had ever been.
Harry Potter in his sixth year, age 16
Upon Harry's forehead, covered by his unruly black hair, was a scar shaped like a lightning bolt. The scar was a result of the failed (and famed) Killing Curse cast on him by Lord Voldemort when he was an infant. It burned painfully whenever Voldemort was near Harry or feeling particularly strong emotions, but this stopped after Voldemort's death and was reduced into an ordinary scar.
Harry also had a faint scar on the back of his right hand which said "I must not tell lies". This scar was caused while Harry spent detentions with Dolores Umbridge, who forced him to use the Black Quill that carved the words into the back of his hand. In addition, Harry has an oval-shaped scar over his heart where the locket-Horcrux seared his skin during the confrontation with Nagini in Bathilda Bagshot's house, Godric's Hollow.
Middle-aged Harry Potter
After Harry was possessed by Lord Voldemort after the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Harry's eyes became somewhat glassy green in appearance, and his voice became a mixture of his own and Voldemort's.
Harry had "great skin" and never suffered from zits.
In the summer of 2014, Harry made an appearance in the Patagonian Desert, where he would attend the final of the 427th Quidditch World Cup with his family, sporting a nasty cut over his right cheekbone, which was a result of his top-secret work for the Auror Office. At age 33, Harry already had "a couple of threads of silver" in his hair, according to Daily Prophet gossip columnist Rita Skeeter. When he was 40, Moaning Myrtle stated that Harry seemed to have gotten more handsome in his older age.
Harry was an extremely brave, loyal, and selfless person who possessed tremendous strength of character. He willingly went to what he truly believed to be his death, because he believed that this was the only way to defeat the Dark Lord. Harry was also marked by what Lord Voldemort once deemed a "weakness for heroics" — he would go to great lengths and take great risks in order to help others, particularly his loved ones. Notably, this was taken advantage of by Voldemort in 1996, when he lured Harry to the Department of Mysteries by making him believe that his godfather was in danger. Harry was also very strong-willed and unafraid to stand up for himself. The fact that he was capable of repelling the Imperius Curse suggests that he had an unusually strong sense of himself and his morals. Dumbledore once made parallels between Harry's traits and qualities that Salazar Slytherin looked for in his own hand-picked students. He also noted that Harry's choice not to draw on those qualities really defined who he was, rather than the simple fact that he had them.
Harry resourcefully using the Sword of Gryffindor, as a way of retrieving Hufflepuff's cup from mounds of burning treasure
Harry was perfectly prepared to put his friends' needs and best interests first, shown by how he ended his relationship with Ginny Weasley, due to his concern for her well being (even though being with her was one of the best things that ever happened to him). The amount of trust that Harry put into his friends was so strong that he absolutely refused to consider that any of them would betray him to Voldemort. Considering that Harry knew a person (Peter Pettigrew) who had betrayed all of his closest friends to Voldemort, this proves Harry's ability to love so unequivocally.
The closeness that Harry felt for many was great enough for him to behave violently if any of them were harmed. When his godfather was murdered by Bellatrix Lestrange, Harry attacked her in a grief-stricken rage of righteous anger and attempted to use the Cruciatus Curse on her. He also attacked Severus Snape after the latter murdered Dumbledore. Ironically, the only people with whom Harry ever initiated a duel were Snape and Bellatrix and he only desired to do so right after they killed someone he loved. This highlights Harry's bravery even further because Harry was fully aware that Snape and Bellatrix were two very skilled and experienced duellists, but did not hesitate to harm them as soon as he was pushed into it. This can also happen if a loved one of his is, even if it isn't true, insulted in front of him, as he so enraged he was seriously considering attacking Albus Dumbledore himself when he stated he believed Sirius was wrong to have treated Kreacher the way he did and that he was trying to keep Sirius alive by keeping him in 12 Grimmauld Place, as Harry believed that Dumbledore had no right, despite knowing fully well he was completely outmatched by Dumbledore, whom he acknowledged to be the greatest wizard in history, but fortunately for Harry Dumbledore did not resort to such means and calmly levelled with him.
However, Harry was also accused of being arrogant, in particular by Severus Snape (although Snape's perspective was skewed due to his poor relationship with James Potter, and Harry often found being famous and admired very difficult), and could be hot-tempered and impulsive. This could sometimes make him rude to authority figures such as Professor Snape and Minister for Magic Rufus Scrimgeour. In contrast, Dumbledore stated that "many teachers report that [Harry's] modest, likeable, and reasonably talented".
Harry brooding over the Snitch, left to him in Dumbledore's will
Harry was prone to moodiness and unkind remarks towards even his friends during his adolescence, though this is likely the result of the great emotional stress and trials he endured during this period. Harry displayed many signs of clinical depression throughout his mid-to-late teens, however this extended to his older life. In his mid-to-late teens, Harry showed signs of these symptoms: general discontent, guilt, hopelessness, mood swings, insomnia (nightmares), agitation, irritability, social isolation and even lack of concentration. These symptoms were continued to be well into his mid ages. It was clear that Harry received limited assistance in his depression during his adolescence, although this was possibly improved in his later life.
Harry was also not one to let bygones be bygones. He had a vindictive streak that made him vengeful at best and spiteful at worse towards those who did him wrong. This varied from wanting to murder/torture those who had performed unforgivable acts like: Bellatrix, Voldemort, and Dolores Umbridge to a desire for pettiness towards: Ron Weasley, Draco Malfoy, Snape, and the Dursley's. Harry even wanted Sirius (before learning of his innocence) and Pettigrew to suffer the Dementor's kiss for their crimes and spent the entirety of the Horcrux hunt angry at Dumbledore for the latter's lack of trust.
Harry possessed an instinctual, intuitive intelligence. This intelligence allowed him to make intellectual leaps,  as opposed to the logical intelligence of Hermione. For example, Harry divined the truth about the Deathly Hallows well before Hermione would accept it. And although he was clever, Harry lacked intellectual curiosity. He rarely put forth effort into school work; for instance, he relied on the notes of the Half-Blood Prince to get ahead in his sixth year Potions class rather than devoting time to studying. Although he did study reasonably hard for his Ordinary Wizarding Levels, the only set of wizarding qualifications he sat at Hogwarts. Harry generally did his best magical work when tackling practical exams rather than theoretical ones. This could be a result of the lack of confidence that Harry developed from growing up with the Dursleys.
Barty Crouch Jnr (disguised as Alastor Moody) remarked that Harry possessed a streak of pride and independence that almost cost him the Triwizard Tournament. His pride didn't allow him to ask for help regarding the problem of breathing underwater for an hour, which was required for the Second task that took place in the Black Lake, was what almost cost him the competition. Harry was also known for wanting to tackle challenges and obstacles on his own, without the aid or interference of others. His friends had to frequently remind him that he needed their assistance and that he "did not always have to go it alone".
Harry also seemed to have a bit of an obsessive personality, a trait he shared with his arch enemy Lord Voldemort. He could be somewhat nosy and was known for sleuthing around and getting involved in things that did not concern him. For instance, during his sixth year Harry became intensely preoccupied with finding out what Malfoy was doing in his free time. He also developed on unhealthy obsession with the Deathly Hallows, to the point where he was listless with longing for the three artefacts. This period of listlessness lasted for many weeks during the hunt for Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes.
Harry and his love for Ginny Weasley, his then ex-girlfriend and future wife
Harry's greatest strength was his ability to feel love, despite having a miserable childhood of neglect. Harry was extremely loyal to and protective of his loved ones and that love was what allowed him to overcome Voldemort. Dumbledore noted that Harry's strength of will at resisting the temptation of the Dark Arts, even when granted a direct insight into Voldemort's mind and methods was due to Harry's ability to love. Harry even claimed that he felt sorry for Voldemort because of his inability to feel or understand love. Ginny, his wife, commented that he was the kindest and most loving man anyone would ever meet.
Albus Dumbledore noted that Harry was unfailingly kind and compassionate. This is shown by how he freed Dobby from the Malfoys and by standing up for Muggle-borns, half-bloods, and half-breeds (like Hagrid). This is likely attributable to his childhood, during which the Dursleys deprived him of compassion and discriminated against him due to his magical abilities. His compassionate led him to spare the life of Delphi, the daughter of Lord Voldemort, despite the history between himself and the Dark Lord. Also, Harry was not a cruel person and he never wished anyone harm. He rarely initiated duels, instead fighting in self-defence. Even after Bellatrix Lestrange had murdered his godfather, Harry failed to cast the Cruciatus Curse on her. Bellatrix noted the he had failed to cast the curse properly because he had cast it out of righteous anger and not malicious intent. However, he did use the Cruciatus Curse more effectively on Amycus Carrow after he spat at and insulted Minerva McGonagall. In addition, he saved Peter Pettigrew from being killed by his (Pettigrew's) former friends Sirius Black and Remus Lupin, though this was not done for humanitarian reasons but for the memory of his father.
Remus Lupin once noted that Harry had very good and nearly always right instincts. Harry had a strong awareness of the incalculable power of certain acts, which is never more apparent than when he refused to allow Lupin to accompany him and leave his wife and child at home and realised that Ron Weasley was meant to destroy Slytherin's locket.
Harry losing his temper with "Aunt" Marge
In some ways, Harry could become extremely intimidating toward people, such as Gilderoy Lockhart, Mundungus Fletcher, Hermione Granger, and Ron Weasley. Harry was seen becoming extremely frightening when pushed to the point of anger or extreme annoyance. When in a bad mood and argumentative, even Harry's closest friends had been wary of him, usually replying to his angry tone in a calm and appeasing voice. The only person who did not appear to be afraid of him when he was angry (other than his teachers and other authority figures in his life) was Ginny Weasley. Dumbledore was a special case, as he acted fatherly towards Harry and had managed to successfully calm him down whenever he got angry with him.
Harry seemed to have good and long memory, as he remembered the motorbike ride to Privet Drive with Hagrid when he was eleven and could remember the deaths of his mother and Voldemort's laughter when the events occurred ten years earlier. Despite needing glasses, Harry possessed a tremendous eyesight as well; he was able to locate the Golden Snitch (which was approximately the size of a golf ball) in a massive Quidditch field. Harry also cared very much for his children. He comforted his daughter, Lily Potter, when she was upset about not going to Hogwarts. He also made sure his younger son Albus Potter would not be teased a lot by Harry's older son, James Potter.
Although never as given to sarcasm or humour as his best friend Ron, Harry often displayed a dry wit. For instance, on finding out that Hermione Granger intended to take twelve O.W.Ls, he asked her if she planned to eat or sleep at all that year. This humour often became more cutting when applied to people Harry disliked. When threatened by Draco Malfoy and his cronies after the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Harry remarked that he supposed that "Lord Voldemort's just a warm-up act compared to you three?", responding to Malfoy's threat that he was dead by casually commenting "funny, you'd think I'd have stopped walking around". Harry also displayed wittiness when he first encountered Crookshanks, remarking that he was either "a very large cat or quite a small tiger".
He was also known to apply his cutting wit to Severus Snape and Dudley Dursley as well. During his first Potions lesson, Snape antagonised Harry with question after question. This was until Harry responded with "I don't know. I think Hermione does, though, why don't you try her?" He also commented that he was surprised that Dudley was intelligent enough to know the days of the week, after Dudley stated he knew what day it was. When Harry was eleven, Dudley suggested that he and Harry should go upstairs and practise shoving heads down toilets. Harry then stated that the toilet had never had something as disgusting as Dudley's head down it.
Harry as the leader of Dumbledore's Army, while teaching a lesson on the Stunning Spell
Although he never sought power himself and would be content with a normal life, when a situation required him to step up he would do so. Such as when he, Ron, and Hermione discovered Voldemort and Quirrell's attempt to steal the Philosopher's Stone and his time as teacher/leader of Dumbledore's Army. Harry had shown not-inconsiderable leadership abilities, to the point that Dumbledore reflected that Harry was a better leader than him as he never sought power for himself but simply had to assume the mantle of leadership due to circumstances beyond his control and found in the process that he did it well.
Like many non-pure-blood wizards raised by Muggles and seeing his life spent in the Muggle world, he had a certain lack of culture towards the wizarding world, and many of the characteristic of this he had heard recently and they turned out to be new to him.
During his youth, Harry tended to see things in a rather stark, absolute manner, particularly when it came to the Hogwarts Houses. Harry generally regarded members of Slytherin House as evil and therefore his enemies, while Gryffindors, Ravenclaw, and Hufflepuffs were allies. The former part could be due to his own status as a Gryffindor and that many of the Slytherins he encountered, such as Lord Voldemort, Draco Malfoy, and Severus Snape, were significant enemies of his during this period. In addition, many of his friends and allies, such as: Ron, Hermione, Dumbledore, and Hagrid, were fellow Gryffindors. However, this mentality eroded as he aged, since he encountered both allies among Slytherin, such as Horace Slughorn (and later, Snape) and enemies among the other three Houses, such as Peter Pettigrew (a fellow Gryffindor) and Quirinus Quirrell (a Ravenclaw). By 2017, Harry had adopted a more moderate attitude on the Houses, telling his younger son Albus Potter that "it doesn't matter to us" if Albus was Sorted in Slytherin or Gryffindor. In addition, Harry named that same son after Severus Snape, whom he recounted as "the bravest man [he] ever knew".
In the aftermath of the Secondary Wizarding War, Harry was shown to suffer from survivor's guilt and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. These two symptoms extended into his childhood and throughout his life at Hogwarts. Because of his depression, he also claimed that he was supposed to die and everyone knew it, but he survived it all. He also claimed that too many people died for the "Boy Who Lived" and that he wasn't worth dying for at all. Harry's depression and trauma were caused by not having removed Voldemort completely from his life, and he feared that he would always allow Voldemort to have some mental and emotional control over him.
Harry also had shown signs of suffering from recurring clinical depression, such as his sullen and withdrawn demeanour during his mid-to-late teens as a result of the tragedies in his life. A particular symptom of this was his outrageous temper during his bouts of depression, which frightened all but Ginny by their sheer force and magnitude alone. Overall, Harry was much the same as any other soldier, struggling to carry on despite the horrors of his past and the brutality he had been a part of for so long.
Harry did have some fears, although he hid them extremely well from his family. In fact, he hid them so well that his younger son considered his father to be utterly fearless. These fears included the dark, pigeons, small spaces, and seeing his family in danger.
It is commented by his son that Harry's personality was complicated, something that was furthered by Ron, who called him intense in terms of his traits and past experiences.
Harry's corporeal stag Patronus
Harry was seen and had proven himself to be an extremely powerful and talented wizard. His power was evident from the start: he demonstrated immediate command of a broomstick, was able to conjure a corporeal Patronus at an exceptionally young age (a mark of superior magical ability), and even survived numerous encounters with Lord Voldemort. He was top of his class at Defence Against the Dark Arts, even instructing older students in defensive and offensive magic. He mastered a wand made of hawthorn, which one should only ever consider placing in the hands of a witch or wizard of proven talent. Harry was also a very gifted flyer and Quidditch player, the youngest Seeker in a century.
Harry defending himself against Grindylows in 1995
Harry duelling Voldemort in the Little Hangleton graveyard
Harry expertly dodging a rogue Bludger on his broom
Harry casting the Patronus Charm, warding off several Dementors
Harry brewing the Draught of Living Death a N.E.W.T.-level potion
Harry conjuring water with the Water-Making Spell
Harry during a second-year Herbology lesson
Harry and Buckbeak during the first lesson of Care of Magical Creatures
Harry, leader and teacher of Dumbledore's Army
Harry using Side-Along Apparition to Apparate himself and Hermione
Harry was a wealthy wizard, having inherited the Potter family fortune after his parents were murdered by Lord Voldemort. Harry relied on this gold for his school supplies, clothing, and other expenses. Following the death of his godfather Sirius Black, Harry became the sole heir of the Black family fortune as well.
Harry's first wand: 11", holly, and phoenix feather
The Marauder's Map
A Firebolt, his second broom and a Christmas gift
Harry wearing a Weasley jumper
Harry's dress robes at the Yule Ball
Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches
The Deathly Hallows (left to right): Cloak of Invisibility, Resurrection Stone, and the Elder Wand
Sword of Gryffindor
12 Grimmauld Place, London
Throughout his life, Harry has had many relationships with a variety of people. Because of his upbringing, he had few connections in his early years, the only people he truly interacted with being the abusive Dursleys. With his introduction to the wizarding world, this changed and he built connections with many of the residents of the magical community, both good and bad. His strongest relationships were with: his parents, his children, Hermione Granger, the Weasley family, Sirius Black, Hedwig, Dobby, Albus Dumbledore, Rubeus Hagrid, Minerva McGonagall, Remus Lupin, Neville Longbottom, Cho Chang, Luna Lovegood and Teddy Lupin.
Harry is the Middle English form of the name Henry, derived from the Germanic name Heinrich, from the words heim, meaning "home", and ric, meaning "power, ruler". It has been a very popular name in the English-speaking world for centuries. Harry can also be a diminutive form of the name Harold, from the Old English name Hereweald, meaning "leader of the army". It has been the name of five kings of Norway, three kings of Denmark, and two kings of England. In an interview J. K. Rowling stated that 'Harry' had always been one of her favourite boy's names and that if her daughter had been a son she would have named him 'Harry', although then she would have to have come up with a different name for the books as it "would have been too cruel to name him after my own son". In-universe, it is possible that he was named after Henry Potter, nicknamed 'Harry', who was James' grandfather and Harry's great-grandfather.
The name "James" came into the English language from the French variation of the Late Latin name Iacomus, a dialect variant of Iacobus, from the New Testament Greek Ἰάκωβος (Iakōbos), from the Hebrew word יעקב (Yaʻaqov, hence the name Jacob), meaning “holds the heel” (in the Genesis narrative, Jacob was born grasping his twin brother Esau's heel and later bought his birthright). James is Harry's middle name, James was the name of his father and is also the name of his first son.
Potter is a very common surname of English origin. It traditionally refers to the occupation of making pottery. The Potter Box is a model for making ethical decisions developed at Harvard University. J. K. Rowling has also commented that she has liked the name since childhood, as a family that had lived near her carried this surname. who also happened to be African-American, the land that was bought by the magician and where Potter lived was called "Potter Place".
Harry in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows chapter art by Mary GrandPré
Harry in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone: Illustrated Edition by Jim Kay
Harry on  Pottermore by Owen Davey
Harry Potter as seen in Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells
Harry Potter as a POP! Vinyl
Harry Potter (Third Task clothing) as a POP! Vinyl
Harry Potter (holding a Mandrake) as a POP! Vinyl
Harry Potter (in 1994 Quidditch World Cup clothing) as a POP! Vinyl
Harry Potter as LEGO minifigure (first edition)
Harry Potter in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Harry Potter in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
"Point me!"
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, O.M. (First Class), Grand Sorc., D. Wiz., X.J. (sorc.), S. of Mag.Q. (August 1881 – 30 June 1997) was an English half-blood wizard. He was the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor, later the Transfiguration Professor, and later the Headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He also served as Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards (?–1995) and Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot (?–1995; 1996–1997). A Muggle-supporting wizard, though the complete opposite in his earlier years, he was considered to have been the greatest wizard of modern times.
He was the son of Percival and Kendra Dumbledore, and the elder brother of Aberforth and Ariana. His father died in Azkaban when Albus was young, while his mother and sister were later accidentally killed. His early losses greatly affected him early on, even at his death many years later, but, in turn, made him a better person.
While initially unable to directly act against Gellert Grindelwald due to their past blood pact, the Ministry's surveillance of him, his love for Grindelwald, and his lingering guilt over his sister's death, Dumbledore sent Newt Scamander to New York to release the Thunderbird Frank, and later sent Newt to Paris to rescue Credence Barebone. After the tragic death of Leta Lestrange in Paris, Dumbledore became determined to contribute helpful advice to the resistance against Grindelwald, notably Newt, Theseus, Tina, Jacob, Yusuf, and Nagini in the global wizarding war. Initially unbeknownst to Dumbledore, however, Grindelwald intended to use the former's alleged Obscurial relative, Aurelius Dumbledore, as a weapon against him.
Following the global wizarding war, regardless of Aurelius's fate, Dumbledore became most famous for defeating Grindelwald in what was considered to be the most epic duel of all time. He also gained much more recognition with his involvement in the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon's blood and his work on alchemy with Nicolas Flamel.
It was through Dumbledore that resistance to the rise of Lord Voldemort was formed. He founded and led the Order of the Phoenix during the First Wizarding War. Following Voldemort's return and the start of the Second Wizarding War after the resignation of Cornelius Fudge, Dumbledore swiftly formed and led the second Order of the Phoenix. He would also support Jacob's sibling in the latter's quest for the Cursed Vaults, and consistently aid Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger during their first six years at Hogwarts, thus leading them to name Dumbledore's Army after him.
Due to the fact that he had a keen mind and was a legendary figure, Dumbledore became the only wizard that Voldemort ever feared. He was the wielder and the master of the Elder Wand from 1945 until 1997, and considered by many as the greatest Hogwarts Headmaster. As he was about to die by a cursed ring, Dumbledore planned his own death with Severus Snape. Per the plan, Dumbledore was killed by Snape during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower.
Though he was no longer alive at the time, it was through Dumbledore's manipulations that Voldemort was ultimately defeated, and lasting peace finally restored to the wizarding world. Dumbledore was the only Headmaster who was laid to rest at Hogwarts. A portrait of him was later put in place at Hogwarts. Harry Potter later named his second son, Albus Severus Potter, after him.
Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore was born to Kendra and Percival Dumbledore in the summer of 1881, in the mainly wizarding village of Mould-on-the-Wold. The early years of Dumbledore's life were marked by tragedy when his younger sister, Ariana Dumbledore, was attacked by a group of Muggle boys, who saw her performing magic and were frightened by what they saw.
Ariana was left mentally and emotionally scarred by the event and her magical powers were left severely altered and would manifest themselves on rare occasions usually in random or destructive ways. Albus's father, Percival Dumbledore, was heartbroken and set out in search of his own brand of justice. He located the Muggle boys and attacked them, as they had his daughter. For this, Percival was sentenced to Azkaban where he later died, choosing the sentence over explaining why he had attacked the boys as it would have meant Ariana being taken away.
To escape the accusing eyes of the local community, Kendra Dumbledore moved her young family to the village of Godric's Hollow which, like Mould-on-the-Wold, was a part-wizarding village. Fearing - like her husband - that the ousting of her daughter's inability to control her magical ability would see her confined indefinitely to St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, Kendra rebuffed all her neighbours, with the eventual exception of Bathilda Bagshot, preferring to be left alone: and Albus learned not to mention his sister or father in public.
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
Dumbledore began attending Hogwarts in the autumn of 1892 and was Sorted into Gryffindor house. Dumbledore's first year was met with much whispering about his father's crime. Many of Albus's fellow students mistakenly believed that, like father like son, Albus too hated Muggles. Some praised his father's actions, hoping to gain his trust, but they would not find favour with the young Dumbledore this way. Though later in his young life, under the influence of his love for Gellert Grindelwald, some anti-Muggle prejudice did develop, but he soon saw the error of his intent. He befriended a young Elphias Doge on his first day at Hogwarts; Doge was suffering from the aftermath of Dragon Pox at the time (greenish skin and pockmarks), which discouraged most from approaching him. Dumbledore, however, demonstrated his uncommon kindness and willingness to look past the surface and find inner beauty in people.
In his third year, Dumbledore presumably took Study of Ancient Runes and at least one other subject, which was known not to be Divination. During his fourth year, he accidentally set the bed-curtains in his dormitory on fire, (although he admitted that he had never liked them anyway). and, being the single most outstanding student in the school at the time, was made both a prefect during his fifth year, and Head Boy in his seventh. As an exceptionally gifted student of predigious talents, Albus' aptitude for magical learning was such that he would eventually grow up to become arguably the greatest wizard of his day through largely his own efforts, he was noted to have had access to various highly accomplished teachers in his youth, who each would have played a part in nuturing his magical skills and helping him reach his full potential. Indeed: At some point over the course of his school career, Albus even won the Barnabus Finkley Prize for Exceptional Spell-Casting, became the British Youth Representative to the Wizengamot, and received the Gold Medal for Ground-Breaking Contribution to the International Alchemical Conference in Cairo, and considered by some to have been the most brilliant student to have ever attended the school. In addition, Dumbledore also became very well-connected during his Hogwarts years, making notable friends such as Nicolas Flamel, Bathilda Bagshot, and Griselda Marchbanks, who marked him in his N.E.W.T.s for Charms and Transfiguration and later recalled that he did things with a wand that she had never seen before. He also had several of his papers published during his studies and exchanged letters with theoretician Adalbert Waffling.
Albus with his best friend and lover Gellert Grindelwald in 1899
After graduating from Hogwarts in June 1899, Dumbledore planned to take the traditional "Grand Tour" of the world with his friend Doge. However, tragedy ensued on the eve of the departure when Kendra Dumbledore was killed by an outburst of Ariana's uncontrollable magic, leaving Albus the head of his own broken family and now in charge of his younger siblings. Albus returned to Godric's Hollow full of bitter resentment at his situation, feeling trapped and wasted, although he refused to let Aberforth quit school and insisted he complete his education first before taking care of Ariana. Fortune finally appeared to shine on Dumbledore, however, when a foreigner arrived at their little village, by the name of Gellert Grindelwald.
In the summer of 1899, Albus was introduced to Gellert by his great-aunt Bathilda Bagshot. After a day of knowing each other, they struck up a close friendship. The two of them spent days together, sharing ideas and talking, and building their relationship. They learned a lot about each other and even shared the same inspirations and what they wanted to spend their lives doing. One night, Albus sent a letter by owl to Gellert in the 'dead of night'.
A young man around Albus's age, he lived for the next two months with his great-aunt, the celebrated magical historian and family friend of the Dumbledores, Bathilda Bagshot, who introduced the two soon after Grindelwald crossed her doorstep. Thrilled to realise that the newcomer was every bit as brilliant as himself, the two young men took to each other right away and quickly struck up a close friendship, unified by the revelation of Grindelwald's research into the existence and whereabouts of the fabled Deathly Hallows. Dumbledore also quickly became fascinated by Grindelwald's ideas of wizarding domination, obviously considering Grindelwald an unexpected new chance to show his own brilliance and come out of the local misery. Over the course of the two months Grindelwald stayed in Godric's Hollow, the two young men's friendship became romantic, with Albus ignoring any misgivings he had about Gellert's dark intents by convincing himself the revolution they were planning to embark on was truly "For the Greater Good", and that any harm caused would be repaid a thousandfold after its conclusion.
Albus and Gellert forming their loyalty and love bond
One night, Albus and Gellert walked to a barn in which they went inside with plans to create a blood pact together, forming a love bond that could only be broken if their spells met without intent to attack one another.
Sometime between Albus and Gellert's relationship, Aberforth fell in love also, with a girl from Godric's Hollow, and their relationship led to her becoming pregnant with Aberforth's child. However, the girl was "sent away", presumably by her family, and Aberforth wouldn't see his son again for over thirty years. Albus was aware of rumours that there was a child from the relationship, but he never knew for sure as the distance between the brothers resulted in Aberforth not confiding in or seeking Albus' help with the situation.
Near the end of the summer, after Albus and Gellert both completely knew and agreed upon everything, with their blood pact in hand, they had plans to start a global wizarding war, and to force Muggles into subservience, with full intent on becoming the great leaders of the revolution. Aberforth knew he had to stay behind, for his sister Ariana. With his brother about to leave, Aberforth had to stop him and young Grindelwald from leaving him and their sister. He confronted them one night and was told that he was a stupid little boy by Gellert for doing so. After Aberforth and Gellert yelled and made countless threats, Aberforth drew his wand and was cruciated by Gellert, though he laughed. Albus realised then how horrible a person Grindelwald was and stepped in to defend his little brother, and a three-way duel broke out between Gellert Grindelwald, Albus Dumbledore, and Aberforth Dumbledore. Ariana Dumbledore ran down the stairs to see what was happening and to try to help the ruckus, but did not know what she was doing and was inadvertently killed by one of the teenagers' stray spells. Gellert retreated quickly to his great-aunt's cottage, where he had her make him a Portkey to take him back home. Albus and Aberforth both rushed towards their sister's body, and cried in regret and pity.
Soon after, they held a funeral for Ariana, at which Aberforth broke Albus's nose out of pure anger and sadness at what he had done.
Shortly thereafter, Albus, who had been exchanging owls with the famous researcher as far back when he had been a student at Hogwarts, travelled to France and spent some time in Paris studying the ancient art and science of alchemy under the tutelage of Nicholas Flamel. He presumably did so in order to both give his brother some space, as well as to get away for a bit and spend his time grieving more productively than he otherwise would have done simply wallowing in his own misery. It is unknown when exactly he returned to Britain, but around the time he did, Albus had become intrigued with the study of dragon's blood, and was ultimately credited with the discovery of no less than twelve new uses for it (even though a wizard by the name of Ivor Dillonsby would later claim that he had already discovered eight of them when Dumbledore "borrowed" his notes); an accomplishment that earned him widespread recognition and ultimately played no small role in the subsequent offer he received of a teaching position at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Having always had a deep fondness for the old school and felt drawn towards teaching even as a student, Albus was happy to accept. At some point after this, he had the unfortunate experience of tasting a vomit-flavoured Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Bean, as a result of which he lost his liking for the sweets.
Dumbledore teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts
And so it was that Albus Dumbledore returned to Hogwarts Castle, not to learn this time, but to teach. Burdened by the secret knowledge of Grindelwald's imminent rise to power and wanting to rectify past mistakes, it was natural, perhaps, that he felt drawn towards the job of Defence Against the Dark Arts instructor, a position in which he could most easily prepare his charges for the dangers he knew one day would come. Albus, who would henceforth come to be known to successive generations of students as 'Professor Dumbledore', was granted Classroom 3C on the third-floor and an office. Around the same time, the bookish young educator also procured and read a copy of The Predictions of Tycho Dodonus.
At some point early on in his teaching career, Albus became aware of the existence of an ancient magical artefact of unknown origin within the school; a looking-glass with a grim history that was far more revealing than most. Having once been kept out in the open where hundreds of people could discover the apparent delights of the Mirror of Erised, it had since been given a new home after a large number of them had become so entranced by what they had seen as to waste away before it. Some had reportedly even gone mad; not knowing if what it showed them was real or even possible. He eventually found it, however, safely tucked away in a hidden room on the uppermost floor of the castle that would only reveal itself to someone if they were in great need of it. The device, however, which upon closer examination turned out to have been bewitched with the tantalising power of showing those who stared into its surface a vision of their heart's deepest desire, proved interesting rather than useful. Intrigued by the mirror as a fascinating piece of magical ingenuity, Albus was nevertheless painfully aware that his greatest yearning at the time was for something impossible, and that clinging on to a wish that could never – and for obvious reasons ought never – to be fulfilled could only hurt him, Dumbledore eventually decided to leave the mirror where it was, covered by a curtain of black velvet. It would take many years before he went to visit it again.
Even though the freshly hired instructor would henceforth largely busy himself with the training of young witches and wizards, Albus would continue to keep in touch with Nicolas Flamel, alongside whom he would eventually achieve a number of advancements in the field of alchemy over the years as their relationship blossomed from that of student-and-mentor, to that of an equal partnership and near life-long friendship. At some point after this, Albus would visit his old friend and pose for a photograph in Flamel's workshop alongside his celebrated mentor, with many of his alchemical tools and equipment being visible in the background, as well as crystal ball and a book with a phoenix on the cover.
Dumbledore teaching Newt Scamander, Leta Lestrange and other students the Boggart-Banishing Spell
In the 1910s, Dumbledore taught Hufflepuff Newton Scamander and Slytherin Leta Lestrange. One of his lessons involved confronting a Boggart and learning the spell to banish it. When Newt's Boggart turned into a desk, Dumbledore commented on its unexpected nature and kindly inquired why it took this form: Newt confessed that his greatest fear was being stuck working in an office. After Newt successfully dispatched the Boggart, Dumbledore encouraged Leta to take her turn, reassuring her that being afraid of something wasn't shameful; everyone was afraid of something. The form of Leta's Boggart surprised both Dumbledore and the entire class: a white sheet containing an undistinguishable, slight form floating through a dark blue glow. The event badly shook Leta.
In 1913, one of Leta's experiments with a Jarvey went too far endangering the life of another student. Newt decided to take the blame and was sentenced to expulsion. Dumbledore, however, argued strongly on his behalf. Whether Newt's expulsion was enforced or not is unknown, but Dumbledore succeeded in at least allowing Newt to keep his wand.
During his time at Hogwarts, Dumbledore also developed close relationships and friendships with wizards and witches throughout the world. Among these friends, he counted the French alchemist Nicolas Flamel and Ilvermorny Charms Professor Eulalie Hicks. He maintained close contact with these friends in the form of enchanted books they all possessed which allowed them to speak despite the distance. The British Ministry of Magic, which was already suspicious of Dumbledore because of his past connection to Grindelwald, was wary of these relationships, believing that he used these contacts as spies to allow him to act as an independent authority to theirs, and maintained a close watch on Dumbledore and his allies. Chief among Dumbledore's rivals within the Ministry was Torquil Travers, the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, who never tried to hide his dislike for the Hogwarts teacher.
Throughout the early days of the global wizarding war, a series of devastating attacks was perpetrated by Gellert Grindelwald and his cadre of followers across Europe, and rumours begun circulating that his former friend had procured a wand of immense power, which Albus, who was privy to the aspiring revolutionary's Quest for the Deathly Hallows, understood to mean that he had successfully obtained the Elder Wand. Sometime afterwards, word reached Albus through his extensive contacts that Grindelwald had had another vision: He had seen a powerful Obscurus kill the man he feared above all else; and even though the pact they had made all those years ago not to fight one another had ultimately worked in Grindelwald's favour by effectively preventing Albus from coming after him, it was clear that he still harboured fears that Dumbledore might still find a way to overcome it and move against him. Only too aware that he was quite possibly the only wizard alive capable of bringing a definitive end to Grindelwald's reign of terror, however, Dumbledore continued to monitor and to try to anticipate Grindelwald's activities in the hopes of intercepting the attempted recruitment of the Obscurus.
It was only years later, around December of 1926 that Dumbledore's patient monitoring of Grindelwald's movements through second-hand accounts paid off; when he heard about the series of magical disturbances that were causing severe devastation throughout the city of New York that risked the exposure of the wizarding world. Having correctly guessed that the mysterious attacks to be the work of a powerful Obscurial and, forever mindful of the fact that if he could figure out where the prophesied entity was located, so could Grindelwald. Hence, Albus decided to arrange for his plans to be thwarted. To this end, he contacted his old student, Newt Scamander, who had become a Magizoologist in the employment of the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures at the Ministry of Magic in London and had been travelling throughout the world, locating and rescuing magical creatures from his fellow wizards; whether it was because they were greedy poachers seeking to profit off of them, or otherwise targeted them for the perceived threat they posed to the Statute of Secrecy.
Dumbledore told Newt of a Thunderbird that was being held captive in Egypt, knowing he would not stand for such an injustice and would not only rescue him but also return him to his native Arizona. To accomplish this, Newt would have to pass through the Muggle customs in New York; where his visit would co-concur with both the Obscurial attacks and Grindelwald's scheme to locate, identify and ally himself with the culprit. Trusting Newt to do the right thing and protect the Obscurial from Grindelwald, it turned out that his confidence in Newt's character and ability was well placed: Newt's involvement resulted not only in the discovery of Credence Barebone, the most powerful Obscurus ever recorded (the only one to survive into adulthood), but also in the capture of Grindelwald, who had been disguised as a high-ranking official at MACUSA by the name of Percival Graves to find the Obscurus. While there, however, Newt got in trouble when a number of the magical creatures his case escaped and ran loose in areas of the city inhabited mainly by Non-magical people.
Dumbledore mentioned in the Transfiguration Today periodical
For his role in the incident in New York, as well as his reluctance and evasiveness in providing his superiors at the Ministry details about why he had been in New York in the first place, Newt was banned from travelling internationally by the Ministry, a ban they offered to lift if he confessed that Dumbledore had been the one to send him to New York. Although he realised that Dumbledore had covertly sent him to New York, Newt remained loyal to his old teacher and refused to confess his role in the affair. Even in later years, when the rumours were published by Rita Skeeter in a biography of Newt called Man or Monster? The TRUTH about Newt Scamander, he continued to deny that Dumbledore was responsible for his trip to New York in the foreword of a new edition of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.
In the same year Dumbledore became a regular columnist for Transfiguration Today, with the Daily Prophet quoting him as saying he was "enraptured!" to be writing for the magazine.
Albus walking with Newt in Trafalgar Square
In 1927, when Grindelwald had escaped, Dumbledore, knowing that he would not be able to fight him due to their blood pact, met with Newt in London to ask him for help. He sent his former student to Paris to find Credence Barebone, who had survived his supposed destruction in New York.
Dumbledore asking Newt Scamander for help in London, 1927
Albus told Newt who it was thought that Credence's true identity was. He then gave Scamander a card which directed straight to a 'safe house' in Paris, where he could go if he needed to hide for a time.
Travers putting Dumbledore into Admonitors during interrogation
The rumours of Newt's potential travel to France reached the British Ministry of Magic, and a delegation of Aurors, including Newt's brother Theseus Scamander and Torquil Travers, was sent to Hogwarts Castle to question Dumbledore. Travers demanded that Dumbledore fight Grindelwald for him, but Albus refused, which angered Travers to the point that he cuffed Dumbledore into Admonitors and forbade him from ever teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts again. Dumbledore turned to Theseus, who was last in leaving the classroom, and warned him that if he'd ever trusted him, he should not let Travers send him to Grindelwald's rally.
Dumbledore talking with Leta Lestrange about her past
Moments later, in one of the classrooms, he met Leta Lestrange, who was also in the delegation, but had separated herself from the group of Aurors. Leta accused Albus of being the only one who did not consider her bad in her youth and stated that he was wrong about this. Dumbledore mentioned that rumours about her brother Corvus Lestrange, who was now believed to be Credence Barebone, must have been painful for her, which angered the witch, who interrupted his statement and added that he could not understand her, because he did not lose his brother. Dumbledore only replied that years ago he lost his sister, Ariana. Ending the conversation, Albus advised her to get rid of regret because it was his inseparable companion since the death of his sister.
Dumbledore viewing his dark past with Gellert
One night, Dumbledore went to the Room of Requirement, where the Mirror of Erised was stored. At first, to his joy, he saw an old memory he still valued of himself and Grindelwald from the time when their friendship was at its peak that led to them sealing their bond with a blood pact in a barn, swearing to never fight each other. Dumbledore also saw Grindelwald himself from the present. Albus was longing for this meeting, while at the same time being very afraid of it, because he knew that he was the only person who could stop Grindelwald, and he could face the truth about who Ariana's killer was.
Newt giving Dumbledore the blood pact pendant at Hogwarts
After the battle of the Lestrange family Mausoleum, Dumbledore was waiting for Newt at Hogwarts. Albus expressed his sadness over Leta's death at Grindelwald's hands. Then, the magizoologist gave him an object stolen by Teddy. It was the pendant of his former teacher's blood pact with Grindelwald, leaving Albus to ponder if he could destroy it, which would allow him to finally participate in the war and defeat the Dark wizard once and for all. Dumbledore asked Newt if his Niffler Teddy would like a cup of tea and they went off to talk about what must be done.
Sometime in between 1927 and 1932, Albus planned to meet with his past boyfriend Gellert Grindelwald. Albus took a train to the London Underground and up to Piccadilly Circus and pondered before walking off to a London cafe to have a meeting with his former partner, Gellert Grindelwald.
Albus Dumbledore and Gellert Grindelwald's restaurant meeting
He ordered a cup of tea for himself and informed the waitress that he was waiting for somebody, who was Gellert Grindelwald. Gellert came late to this meeting. The two distant lovers, discussed their common past and goals. Albus claimed to only have followed Gellert due to being in love. Grindelwald expressed his distaste for the Muggles present and informed Dumbledore of his intention to destroy their world, with or without Dumbledore's help, but he did acknowledge that they knew how to brew a good cup of tea.
Knowing the dangers of Gellert Grindelwald were growing, Albus enlisted Newton Scamander to assemble an army, filled with intrepid wizardkind, while also trying to figure out a way to destroy the blood pact created by his lover and him in their youth.
Albus showing Theseus alongside Newt the blood pact
Albus came to the Hog's Head Inn to meet with Newt Scamander and Theseus Scamander. In one of the rooms he demonstrated to the Scamander brothers that his blood pact was not only preventing him from attacking Grindelwald, but also was preventing him from thinking of attacking Gellert. After the thought of attacking Grindelwald flashed through his mind, the blood pact vial shot up and began to tear into the wall, then the chain it was hanging from was wrapped around Albus's wrists, deeply injuring him. If Albus hadn't pushed the forbidden thought out of his head, the chain would continue to hurt him, until he would eventually die of his wounds. Dumbledore stopped his demonstration and the chain loosened. He also told Theseus that he had to trust him. Albus explained to the Scamander brothers that the Qilin that Grindelwald stole had some special abilities and because of them Gellert could saw visions of the future, so the brothers had to be very careful.
Before departing to Berlin, Dumbledore had given each of his army something to confuse Grindelwald, as they had to compensate for his ability to see the future. Newt gave them all the items Albus had entrusted to them: Theseus got a tie with a large gold pin, Jacob got a serpentine wand but with no core, so it had no power; Bunty was given a list of instructions that only she could see. In the instructions Dumbledore ordered her to make some copies of Newt's suitcase. After reading them, the instructions fell apart. Yusuf was ordered to go to Nurmengard and spy on Grindelwald, while Lally already had the Portkey book.
Later Dumbledore arrived in Berlin himself, where he met with Newt, Lally and Jacob. Albus asked Lally and Jacob to go to the candidates dinner, as he suspected that there will be some kind of assassination attempt. Dumbledore also revealed to Newt the location of the mysterious German wizarding prison, Erkstag, where Theseus was being imprisoned.
Albus fighting Credence Barebone in Berlin
Sometime after, he found Aurelius Dumbledore in Berlin on a street. Credence released his Obscurus and started the fight. Albus successfully defended himself, but Credence's condition did not allow him to win this fight. Dumbledore assured Credence that Grindelwald had lied to him, and that they were not brothers, but told him that they "do share the same", and he is a Dumbledore.
Albus with Newt's army in the Great Hall
After Newt put together his team of his chosen wizards, Albus invited them to Hogwarts and while in the Great Hall showed them a sculpture of where they were heading. The destination of their journey was Bhutan. The walk of the Qilin was to be held there, and a new Supreme Mugwump was to be elected.
Dumbledore invited his crew to dinner at Hog's Head, where Aberforth prepared a meal for them. Albus explained to Aberforth that Credence was the son of Aberforth, the fruit of a relationship with a girl from Godric's Hollow. It turned out that Newt had overheard their conversation. After Aberforth left the room, Albus told Newt the truth about Credence and that the boy was dying and could not be saved. He also revealed that his sister, Ariana, was an Obscurial like Credence, and that she died as a result of a fight between him, Aberforth and Grindelwald. Newt tried to cheer Albus, but to no avail, as Albus blamed himself for his sister's death.
Later, Dumbledore waited with Bunty for Newt, Theseus, Jacob and Lally in the Room of Requirement. There were five identical suitcases waiting for them, in one of them was hidden Qilin. Dumbledore asked Newt if he knew which of the suitcases was real, to which Newt replied that he did not know. Dumbledore replied that it was good, because if he had known, the plan would not work. Dumbledore had successfully planned an escape plan in case Grindelwald's men would attack. The three suitcases contained enchanted books, Quaffle, Bludgers, and Jacob's pastries that would attack the Grindelwald's acolytes in case of trouble. Everyone, apart from Albus, took one suitcase and they all used a Qilin Ceremony Portkey to the Magisterial Chamber of Ancient Wizardry in Bhutan. Dumbledore and Jacob go first, the rest follow.
The Qilin bowing before Dumbledore
During the ceremony, Grindelwald used the revived Qilin, which bowed to him, making him the new Supreme Mugwump. Dumbledore witnessed how Grindelwald used the Cruciatus Curse on Jacob. Newt, however, wanted to expose Grindelwald, and with the help of Credence, revealed that Grindelwald was a liar. When Bunty appeared, Newt pulled a second Qilin from the suitcase. The second Qilin bowed before Albus. While honoured by the Qilin's selection, he declined to assume office, saying there was a second person equally deserving to be Supreme Mugwump. Ultimately, Vicência Santos won the election, as the Qilin bowed to her. Out of anger, Grindelwald cast a Killing Curse at Credence, which was deflected by Albus and Aberforth.
The deflected curse damaged the blood pact's pendant, which Dumbledore owned. The vial was destroyed, because neither Dumbledore nor Grindelwald thought of attacking each other, one wanted to kill someone, the other wanted to defend. Immediately, both wizards duelled each other, which ended in an impasse. When the Aurors and the rest gathered to capture Grindelwald, he told Albus before Disapparating that he had never been their enemy, now or then.
Later Dumbledore witnessed Newt, Tina Goldstein, Theseus, and Lally attending Jacob's and Queenie Goldstein's wedding in New York City. Albus thanked Newt for his help, to which Newt replied that if Albus asked him again, he would help him.
Dumbledore arriving at Wool's Orphanage
At some point in his career, Albus also became involved with the recruitment of students for Hogwarts, becoming a special messenger for the school whose job it was to visit the young witches and wizards whose names appeared in the Book of Admittance and came from Muggle families in order to explain to their parents that magic existed and to deliver the acceptance letter in person. Most prominent among the students he recruited was Tom Riddle in 1938, who resided at Wool's Orphanage in London. For the purposes of fulfilling his duty as the school's messenger, Dumbledore wrote to the matron, Mrs Cole, to schedule a meeting with her to discuss arrangements for the boy's future. Because young Riddle was a ward of the state and she the custodian of the institution at which he lived rather than the boy's legal guardian, however, Albus were purposefully vague in his reasons for wanting to meet the boy.
Thinking he might be a family member wanting to claim him, she accepted the preposition and, at the agreed upon time and date, Professor Dumbledore presented himself at the establishment in question. Shown in by one of the employees, Albus was formally introduced to Mrs Cole, who invited him to join him in her office to talk about the reasons for his visit. The news that Tom had been accepted to attend the school where Albus taught came as a surprise to Mrs Cole, who at Dumbledore's request recounted Tom Riddle's history at the orphanage, mostly notably the circumstances of Tom's birth, his anti-social behaviour and his extraordinary bad influence on the other children; including some very nasty incidents that resulted in the death of a pet rabbit and a gathering with several of his peers in a cave that left them traumatised.
Dumbledore meeting Tom Riddle
Once it became clear that Albus would not be dissuaded from his mission, however, Mrs Cole agreed to let him meet the prospective student and escorted him to the upper floor to the boy's room, where the two were formally introduced. Initially suspicious and hostile towards him, Albus found himself having to assure the boy that he was not, in fact, a doctor that had come to lock him up at the asylum; showing his awareness of the matron's suspicions about his behaviour, and was finally able to extend the invitation to Hogwarts and inform him that he was, in fact, a wizard. And though he was impressed to hear, as Mrs Cole's testimony suggested, how well-developed his powers were for such a young wizard, as well as how his degree of control over them was such that he had already begun to use them intentionally. It was also during this encounter that Albus first learned that the boy was a Parselmouth; a fact that he did not find nearly as concerning as the boy's "obvious instincts for cruelty, secrecy and domination".
Upon discovering that Riddle had stolen from the other children at the orphanage, Dumbledore admonished him for his behaviour and instructed him return the items to their rightful owners and apologise for taking them, warning him that he had exercised his abilities in a manner that would be unacceptable at Hogwarts, should he agree to attend. Thereafter, Dumbledore provided him with enough information to find Diagon Alley and Platform Nine and Three-Quarters, as well as a stipend from school funds so that he could purchase his books and other equipment. On account of his conduct around his peers, Dumbledore became immediately suspicious of and resolved to keep a close eye on him during his studies at the school.
Professor Dumbledore talking with Tom Riddle during the first opening of the Chamber of Secrets, 1943
At an unknown point in time, Dumbledore became the Professor of Transfiguration. In 1943, several Muggle-born students were mysteriously petrified by a beast rumoured to have been released by the Heir of Slytherin from the mythical Chamber of Secrets. Indeed, the final victim of the beast, Myrtle Warren, was actually killed; this act seemed likely to ensure the permanent closure of the school, forcing Riddle to go back to the orphanage. While Dumbledore rightly suspected Riddle was behind the attacks, the aspiring Dark wizard expertly framed Gryffindor student Rubeus Hagrid as the perpetrator.
Riddle was able to pass off Hagrid's tamed Acromantula, Aragog, as the beast attacking students, resulting in Hagrid's expulsion and ensuring that Hogwarts remained open. Dumbledore was never able to uncover hard evidence implicating Riddle, however, he nonetheless kept a very close watch over Riddle, preventing him from opening the Chamber of Secrets again during his remaining years at Hogwarts. He was also able to convince the Headmaster to allow Hagrid to remain at the school as the groundskeeper-in-training.
Albus duelling his former lover
As Dumbledore was educating young wizards and witches, Gellert Grindelwald was still at large in Europe, building up his army, and had already found one of the Deathly Hallows, the Elder Wand, which he used to continue terrorising the continent. Initially prevented from opposing Grindelwald directly because of the blood pact they once made, even once that was destroyed, Dumbledore still felt conflicted about going after his old friend. In spite of himself, he still felt a lingering love for the man Grindelwald had been, or rather, the man he had once convinced himself Grindelwald was and/or could be. More than anything, however, Dumbledore feared facing Grindelwald. While secure in his ability to defeat him in battle if it came to it, more than anything, Dumbledore was afraid Grindelwald could reveal to him that it had in fact been he himself who had cast the curse that killed Ariana. Having delayed pursuing him as long as he could, however, at the height of Grindelwald's power, in 1945, Albus could no longer in good conscience turn a blind eye to the many atrocities of Grindelwald and his followers, and so he finally tracked his old friend down. Upon finding Grindelwald, Dumbledore engaged him in what would later be widely considered the greatest duel ever fought between two wizards. Dumbledore defeated Grindelwald and then brought him before the authorities of the magical world, and Grindelwald was imprisoned in the uppermost cell at Nurmengard, while Dumbledore kept the Elder Wand for himself. Celebrated worldwide as the hero who put to rest the global wizarding war and ended Grindelwald's For the Greater Good revolution of wizarding dominance over Muggles, Dumbledore was awarded the Order of Merlin (First Class), by Leonard Spencer-Moon's administration.
Resuming his career following this legendary event, Albus was offered the position of Minister for Magic several times, but he turned down the offer every time, remembering how his quest for power had been his weakness in the past. It was around this time that he encountered a house-elf named Hokey. Before she died, he took a memory from her, in which Tom Riddle showed his interest towards the magical antiques of a recently deceased Hepzibah Smith. This memory was not sufficient evidence to show Hokey's innocence, as it only proved that Riddle was aware of the artefacts' existence.
As though the opening of the legendary Chamber of Secrets some thirty odd years back had not been bad enough, however, a young witch by the name of Patricia Rakepick arrived at Hogwarts and eventually caught Dumbledore's attention not only by virtue of the fact that she had been unusually gifted magically, but also due to her extensive research into the fabled Cursed Vaults. Myth would have it that there were a number of concealed rooms hidden in and around Hogwarts Castle; each shielded by a different curse to guard priceless treasures of gold, prophecies and powerful magical artefacts dating back to before the school was founded. Convinced that the vaults were real, Rakepick had tried to warn the staff about them, but seen as how neither she, nor anyone else for that matter, had ever come close enough to finding them to offer up any solid proof for their existence, her professors, Albus included, did not act on it at the time.
Headmaster Dumbledore welcoming students to the new school term
By the mid-1960s, the amount of Dark magical activity across the country was growing steadily, and while few knew what was behind the mounting attacks and sightings, this was but the precursor to Lord Voldemort's first rise to power. Aware that it was only a matter of time before his former student made his presence and intent known to the wizarding community at large and already preparing to actively oppose him, by the time the Death Eaters began recruiting Dark creatures to help them overthrow the Ministry of Magic, and the Ministry, in turn, started to call upon the services of authorities on such matters to help it understand and contain the threat, the old Transfiguration teacher already had spies in their midst reporting to him. It was through these contacts that Dumbledore first learned of the attack on a young boy by the name of Remus Lupin, who had been infected with lycanthropy by a Fenrir Greyback. Rather than trying to manage his condition, however, the attacker had instead made it his mission in life to infect as many people as possible and was harbouring grand plans of raising an army of werewolves big enough to take over the wizarding community; and even earned quite a bit of notoriety for targeting children with the intent of raising them away from other witches and wizards in order to teach them to despise regular humans. Knowing how this would have had to have impacted the Lupin family, the old Transfiguration teacher could not help but be sympathetic to their predicament. As fortune would have it, however, a blessing in disguise presented itself when the Board of Governors was faced with the decision of finding a suitable candidate to succeed Armando Dippet and concluded that Professor Dumbledore was the best man for the job.
This, in turn, granted him the authority to properly accommodate the Lupins when the time came for Remus to attend school. Shortly after Dumbledore assumed the position, by which time he had already relocated to the Headmaster's Tower and filled his new study with a number of curious magical instruments that had formerly been housed in his old classroom, Tom Riddle, now known exclusively as Lord Voldemort, approached him with the same request he had made to Dippet before him, to be allowed to return to Hogwarts as a teacher. Dumbledore, who knew of Voldemort's illicit activities since he left Hogwarts and suspected that he might have meant to use the position as means of recruiting more followers, turned down his application. This led Voldemort to angrily jinx the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts instructor, preventing anyone from holding the position for more than a single school year. What was more; while being entrusted the stewardship of the school was, in and of itself, an honour and a privilege, it also meant that he was henceforth expected to shoulder the responsibility of making all the difficult decisions that came with leadership:
On such occasions, Dumbledore would step out into the Clock Tower Courtyard, where he found the quiet, starry night and the crisp air helpful in regard to putting one's troubles in perspective, and developed a habit of pacing around his new office a lot, especially in troubled and trying times such as when the security of the castle was breached. On occasion, he would also see students in his office, be it because of a misdemeanour that had to be addressed, or because one of the pupils sought redress during conflicts with their peers, such as Bertha Jorkins. At some point following his appointment, Professor Dumbledore began to offer to help students with their homework, whom he would meet every Friday in Classroom E-13. Fond of festivities in general, he would also usually stand for the entertainment during the annual Hallowe'en Feast in the Great Hall.
As the day neared when young Remus Lupin would be of an eligible age to begin his magical education, Dumbledore wasted little time in making the necessary preparations for the young man's arrival: To this end, Dumbledore arranged for a house to be built a little way above the rest of the nearby Hogsmeade; perched atop a hill overlooking the village. Once finished, the Headmaster applied the appropriate spells to provide Remus with a safe and secure place for his transformations that could contain even a fully grown werewolf, if necessary. Next, he arranged for an underground passage to be made on the school grounds to give Remus an easy and discreet way of accessing the building when necessary and had a Whomping Willow planted over the opening; both to hide it from view, and as a security measure to stop anyone from coming across the future pupil whilst he was dangerous. Shortly before 10 March 1971, Dumbledore showed up unannounced at the doorstep of Lyall and Hope Lupin to invite their son to attend school. Well aware that their initial reaction, namely to try and keep him from entering their home, stemmed from fear more than anything else, the Headmaster took the liberty of finding his own way into the house. Five minutes later, Dumbledore was sitting on their living room floor by the fireplace, eating crumpets and playing Gobstones with Remus.
After explaining to the three of them that he was aware of their situation and, more importantly, that as far as he was concerned, there was no reason why Remus should not be able to attend Hogwarts, as long as special precautions were taken to ensure the safety of both Remus and the other students, a mutual understanding was reached, and it was eventually agreed that young Mr Lupin would indeed present himself at Hogwarts Castle for the Start-of-Term. This would forever earn Dumbledore Remus's gratitude, as most others would simply have forbidden the boy from even setting foot in the school. When Severus Snape found out Remus's secret, Dumbledore forbade him from repeating it to anyone.
Some of the members of the original Order of the Phoenix
After Lord Voldemort started his first rise to power in 1970, Dumbledore, around whom opposition to the Dark Lord had always rallied, founded and led the Order of the Phoenix, a secret society willing to risk their lives to fight Voldemort and his Death Eaters, and despite the fact that the group suffered heavy losses during the conflict, it was also a significant contributor to the war effort. Throughout Dumbledore's efforts to undermine the Dark Lord's rise to power, a great many witches and wizards passed was educated at Hogwarts: Some of these became staunchly loyal to him and what he stood for, whereas others would become enemies, allying themselves with Lord Voldemort. Among these students were future Order members Arthur Weasley and Molly Prewett, Death Eaters-to-be Bellatrix Black and Lucius Malfoy.
Later on in the war, Dumbledore was approached by another person who also wanted a job at Hogwarts: Sybill Trelawney, who applied to become the new professor of Divination, a subject Dumbledore disliked and barely considered a part of necessary education for young wizards and witches. Dumbledore gave her a chance because she was the great-great-granddaughter of the celebrated Seer Cassandra Trelawney. To his disappointment, when he was interviewing Sybill at the Hog's Head, he came to the conclusion that she was not a real Seer. However, as Dumbledore was about to leave, Trelawney fell into a real trance and made a prophecy about the birth of the one that would have the power to vanquish the Dark Lord, who would be born to those "who have thrice defied him, born as the seventh month dies". This astonished Dumbledore, but as it turned out, the Death Eater Severus Snape had overheard most of the prophecy but had been caught in the act of spying and ejected from the tavern by Aberforth Dumbledore. Dumbledore hired Trelawney in order to protect her from the Death Eaters.
Jacob in his room
No sooner had Rakepick completed her tutelage and left her school days behind, however, before her spiritual successor arrived to begin his own. Over the course of his school career, young Jacob earned a steadily increasing notoriety by not only having picked up where she had left off, but he had even succeeded where she failed; a feat he accomplished with the help of two of his classmates, Duncan Ashe and Olivia Green, who were in Slytherin and Ravenclaw House, respectively. Between the latter's arrival in 1974 and his eventual banishment from the castle in 1980, not only had this trio of friends managed to penetrate one of the oldest and most dangerous secrets that the ancient castle had to offer, but they had also broken countless school rules and inadvertently endangered their peers by tampering with the vaults by unleashing a myriad devastating curses upon the school. This did not, however, discourage the Headmaster from taking a personal interest in Jacob, who was both one of the most rebellious and most talented students at the time.
Having sensed his underlying decency of instinct despite his disregard for the school rules and, more importantly, fully recongised that there had been no malintent on his part when he had triggered the safeguards of the vaults, having done so on accident, Dumbledore was very lenient with the boy. Even so, he still kept a close eye on him and had even gone to some lengths to help him, which included giving him private lessons to help him nurture his gift as a born Legilimens. He did not, however, condone their continued fixation with the Cursed Vaults; particularly in the case of Jacob himself, who eventually grew dangerously obsessive with opening all of the vaults. Having grown concerned that this fixation might even drive him mad, and finally unable to overlook their pursuit for the vaults for these reasons, he was known to have reprimanded both Jacob and Mr Ashe for their many indiscretions on at least one occasion.
Despite his best efforts to help Jacob, however, and even though Dumbledore and the rest of the staff ultimately got the situation under control, their hunt for the vaults ended in tragedy when Duncan Ashe was killed while attempting to brew a particularly potent Erumpent Potion in an effort to get past one of the obstacles standing between them and one of the Cursed Vaults. Neither the first, nor the last casualty at the school as a result of Jacob's extra-curricular activities, Olivia Green also endured hardships as a result. With the death of a student on their hands as a direct result of their search for the vaults, Dumbledore notified the Ministry of Magic about Duncan's untimely demise, at which point two Aurors were sent to bring Jacob in for questioning. Having found him at the Three Broomsticks Inn, they promptly "grabbed him by the hood of his robes and dragged him out the door".
Having been informed of Jacob's subsequent confession that he had pressured his friend into making the potion as part of their bid for the vaults, Dumbledore had no other choice but to expel him from the school. And even though Jacob's removal was prominently covered at the time in the Daily Prophet, the faculty still denied any knowledge that the vaults' existence, both to dissuade students from pursuing them, and to prevent the Ministry and concerned parents from inserting themselves into Hogwarts affairs.
The Eye of Horus, a symbol of The Cabal
Several months after Dumbledore was forced to terminate his enrolment, however, not only did word reach him that Jacob had ran away from home and, rumours had it, earned notoriety in the figurative underworld as the "most feared wizard in Knockturn Alley"; which led to the misconception that he had even become a follower of Lord Voldemort. After a subsequent discussion with the late Duncan Ashe, however, who had returned as a ghost following his unfortunate passing, not only was it established beyond any reasonable doubt that Jacob had never been Death Eater material, but more importantly, the Headmaster learned about the horrible truth behind Jacob's obsession with the vaults, as well as the highly significant and mitigating circumstances surrounding the part he had played in the events that had led up to his expulsion from the school in the first place:
Throughout their attendance at Hogwarts, Jacob, Duncan and Olivia had all been on the receiving end of a series of threatening messages from a secret society of Dark witches and wizards calling itself The Cabal, which had coerced them into becoming unwilling pawns in the group's bid for the Cursed Vaults by informing them that failure to cooperate would have meant their deaths. Their involvement had been a covert one indeed, as not only had all of this taken place right under the noses of Dumbledore and the rest of the faculty, but it had even been sublte enough that Jacob's search for the vaults had seemed, to the castle's other inhabitants, like nothing more the self-seeking exploit of a reckless youth. Only then was Dumbledore made aware that the true driving force behind Jacob's obsession with was his love for his family.
Even under duress, Jacob had actually gone to some lengths to try and protect the school, and defied the group by moving all of their research into the vaults from the Boathouse - where he and his accomplices had been holding secret meetings while they were still under R's heel - to a new home in order to hide it from them. In response to Jacob's resistance, however, The Cabal had raised the stakes and threatened to make his mother and his younger sibling "disappear" if he refused to cooperate, thus forcing Jacob's compliance and explaining the urgency with which he pursued the Cursed Vaults in the later parts of his education. And it had been for this reason that Jacob had taken the blame for the very potion that The Cabal had forced Duncan Ashe to make, as he feared that they would go after his family had he tried to expose them.
Even though Dumbledore was fully prepared to take the mitigating circumstances of Jacob's transgressions into account going forward, any decision the Headmaster might have meant to make about revoking Jacob's expulsion or help to fight The Cabal ultimately became rather inappreciable when Jacob went mysteriously missing shortly thereafter. With Jacob gone and unable to protect his kin, and given the possibility that The Cabal - whose members were still unknown and very much at large - might make good on their threats had he began to move against them prematurely, Dumbledore kept most of his findings to himself. As such, there were only three people who knew the full story once the dust had settled: Jacob, Duncan Ashe, and the Headmaster himself. Certain that Hogwarts had not seen the last of The Cabal, however, he tasked his old friend, veteran Auror and brother-in-arms in the Order of the Phoenix, Alastor Moody, with investigating The Cabal, who henceforth monitored their activities off-the-books.
Albus Dumbledore in 1981, at age 100, during the trial of Igor Karkaroff
Still, the wizarding war raged beyond the walls of Hogwarts: Shortly before the Potters' deaths, Dumbledore discovered that James's Cloak of Invisibility was, in fact, one of the Deathly Hallows. Although Dumbledore had long given up his desire to unite the Hallows and become Master of Death, he could not resist the thought of studying the Cloak. To that end, he borrowed it from James while James and Lily were in hiding. Later, Severus Snape approached Dumbledore, having already told Voldemort about the Prophecy. Snape was shocked by the fact that Voldemort had concluded that the prophecy was about Harry Potter, the son of James Potter, and Snape's own beloved childhood friend, Lily Evans. Dumbledore agreed, on the basis that Snape worked as a double agent for the Order. Dumbledore made arrangements to ensure the safety of the three; he advised them to stay hidden in their house in Godric's Hollow, which was protected by a Fidelius Charm. However, their Secret-Keeper (believed by Dumbledore and everyone else to be Sirius Black, but was in truth Peter Pettigrew) betrayed them, resulting in James and Lily's deaths at Voldemort's hands. However, as Voldemort attempted to murder Harry the curse backfired due to the protection provided by Lily Potter's love for her son and destroyed his body. This unfortunate occurrence provided Dumbledore with ownership of two of the Hallows, having already confirmed James's old cloak was indeed the one of legend.
Albus Dumbledore delivering Harry Potter with Minerva McGonagall
Presumably well aware that Lord Voldemort wasn't truly vanquished, Dumbledore made sure that Harry would be kept safe with his family, the Dursleys, despite them not being selected as his guardians in the event of James and Lily's death, as his spells ensured that Voldemort could not harm Harry there as long as he could have a home with those with whom he was related by blood. He convinced Snape to help him protect Harry, although years later Dumbledore secretly planned to allow Voldemort to kill Harry in the end, which would destroy the piece of Voldemort's soul inside Harry. However, he also hoped to influence Harry into such a person who would willingly sacrifice his life for the greater good, allowing him the chance to choose between life and death in the end, guessing correctly the significance of such an act. Shortly thereafter, Dumbledore gave Snape employment at Hogwarts as the Potions master, and later defended Snape against the Ministry of Magic, who were rounding up and arresting remaining Death Eaters. Dumbledore attended many Death Eater trials, including that of the Lestranges and Barty Crouch Jnr. He was also a witness to Igor Karkaroff's testimony which secured his release from Azkaban in return for the names of fellow Death Eaters. With Harry safe and certain members of the Order of the Phoenix and allies of their cause keeping watch over him and reporting back to Dumbledore, he continued his work as the brilliant if eccentric Headmaster of his beloved school.
Dumbledore at the Sorting Ceremony of 1984
At the Start-of-Term Feast during the 1984–1985 school year, Professor Dumbledore witnessed the Sorting ceremony of first-year students, including Charlie Weasley, Nymphadora Tonks, and Jacob's younger sibling, after which he stood behind the Owl Lecturn and gave a traditional welcoming speech. In his speech, he mentioned how Harry Potter was safe and would himself attend Hogwarts when old enough, along with House points and the yearly House Cup.
At some point during the school year, Dumbledore was informed by Professor Severus Snape about cursed ice resurfacing in Hogwarts Castle, and a Locked Room which possibly contained the source of it.
After Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde duelled in the Courtyard without permission or supervision, Dumbledore introduced the students to the Hogwarts Duelling Club in the Dungeons, where duelling could be practised safely. He made certain to impress on the students how the destruction caused by these duels was left there so other students who wanted to duel could see how dangerous duelling could be, and consider the implications of casting unfriendly spells.
Dumbledore checking up on Jacob's sibling
Before this year's Hallowe'en Feast, several students volunteered to help Dumbledore with decorations, such as the carving of jack-o'-lanterns and crafting hats for a troupe of dancing skeletons. Near the end of the feast, however, the school was under attack by a pack of werewolves, and after Dumbledore successfully removed five that had almost overran Hagrid's Hut, he came back to the Training Grounds in time to save Jacob's sibling and another unconscious student from three more, including Fenrir Greyback, who caught the scent of Dumbledore and left. The Headmaster examined the unconscious student, who was Chiara Lobosca, and concluded that she had not been bitten. He then informed the Ministry of Magic about the incident, and as a result, Cecil Lee was sent to investigate.
A month later, the castle was under another attack by Greyback's army, during which Chiara fought as a werewolf to protect Jacob's sibling. The Headmaster came to know this identity of Chiara, and extended her the same offer he had done Remus Lupin years before. When this whole incident was over, Dumbledore held another Hallowe'en Feast to finish what had been left out.
Dumbledore attending Hagrid's birthday celebration
Before Rubeus Hagrid's birthday, Dumbledore decided to throw him a surprise birthday party. He first contacted Jacob's sibling, who was already a friend of Hagrid, and then went to find Amos Diggory, who agreed to drop by the castle with a selection of magical creatures for them to pick from as a birthday gift. In order to distract Hagrid, Dumbledore asked him to meet at the Training Grounds and help take care of some "urgent business" in Hogsmeade, while Jacob's sibling stayed behind and babysat Fang. When they returned, Dumbledore instructed Jacob's sibling to invite Professor Snape next, even if they had to bribe him with a gift. The birthday party was held as scheduled and turned out to be a huge success.
Around Christmas, students continued to help Dumbledore with festive decorations. This tradition would be continued for the following few years.
When Dumbledore found out Jacob's sibling and their friends had broken into the Locked Room, he talked to Jacob's sibling in the Courtyard. Instead of handing out punishment, Dumbledore awarded them 100 House points for their brave acts. Nevertheless, he reminded them that the impact on others should be kept in mind in their coming years.
At the end of the school year, Dumbledore announced the winner of the House Cup as usual.
Dumbledore spent most of the 1985–1986 school year outside Hogwarts, looking for a professional Curse-Breaker, Patricia Rakepick, whose help he needed for finding the Cursed Vaults.
He was present at the Start-of-Term Feast, delivering his welcoming speech while also offering a word of caution. Ben Copper was soon found missing, and Dumbledore was possibly paid a visit by Professor McGonagall, who informed him the secret message Jacob's sibling had found in the Locked Room. After Dumbledore was gone, he possibly received an owl from one of the professors alerting him to the activities of R.
Dumbledore discussing recent events with Jacob's sibling
When he was back at Hogwarts, he found that the Vault of Ice had again been broken into by Jacob's sibling and their friends, which led to the disappearance of the cursed ice. He required to see them in the Headmaster's office and rewarded them another 50 points, but warned them never to go near the Cursed Vaults again.
Dumbledore talking to Aurélie Dumont
At some point while he was at Hogwarts, the Headmaster presided over this year's Teacher Appreciation Celebration, with the Guest of Honour being McGonagall. At another point, Dumbledore arranged for Olympe Maxime, the Headmistress of Beauxbatons Academy of Magic, to visit Hogwarts to discuss school matters, and Maxime brought Aurélie Dumont, a student of her who came to search for Nicolas Flamel's chalice. When Dumbledore met Aurélie, he talked about his own experience of learning Alchemy with Nicolas Flamel and denied the existence of such item at Hogwarts, but nevertheless encouraged her not to give up on her goals.
Dumbledore greeting the students
Before the Start-of-Term Feast of the 1986–1987 school year, Professor Dumbledore spoke to the students, confirming the existence of the Cursed Vaults and imposing a blanket ban on all future attempts to look for the rest of them. It was most likely also Dumbledore who instructed Jacob's sibling's Head of House to not permit them to go on Hogsmeade trips due to them breaking school rules and not focusing on their studies.
During a third-year Herbology class, a Boggart manifested in one of the greenhouses, assuming the form of a werewolf and terrifying students. Professor Pomona Sprout reported the incident to Dumbledore immediately after taking care of the Boggart.
Dumbledore and Snape evaluating Merula Snyde's Wit-Sharpening Potion
At some point during the school year, Dumbledore was approached by Merula Snyde, who showed him the Wit-Sharpening Potion she had allegedly been working on. He also spoke to Jacob's sibling, who was disguised as Professor Snape, about various businesses. During the conversation, he even indirectly revealed the identity of the Curse-Breaker he had been finding in the past year, who had some school years overlapping with Snape's. Though he wasn't aware of who he was actually talking to, he still figured something was off. When "Professor Snape" asked Merula to come forward and admit her wrongdoing of claiming credit for the potion actually brewed by Penny Haywood, Dumbledore invited Penny up on the podium to receive the credit she deserved. It was also at this moment that he realised the true identity of "Snape". He awarded them 10 House points for their loyalty and cheerfully advised them to leave before the effects of the Polyjuice Potion wore off.
Before Dumbledore left Hogwarts again to search for Rakepick, he gave Rita Skeeter "periodical permission" to visit Hogwarts Castle to observe the students, and to invite them to partake in a "friendly competition" where the winner would receive a first-page article in the Daily Prophet. During this search, Dumbledore was finally able to track down Rakepick, who was investigating some ancient ruins that had recently been discovered beneath Castelobruxo. Unable to leave Brazil until her work there was finished, an arrangement was made where she would instead come to Hogwarts at the beginning of the next term. Dumbledore doubted whether the elusiveness of Rakepick indicated problems regarding her trustworthiness, but eventually chose to give her the benefit of the doubt due to the lack of real evidence.
Dumbledore back at Hogwarts
When Dumbledore was back, he paid Jacob's sibling and their friends a visit in the Three Broomsticks Inn, where they were celebrating their success regarding the break-in of the Vault of Fear. Back at his office, Dumbledore listened to Jacob's sibling's vault-breaking story and talked about his own adventure. Despite them breaking the rules again, Dumbledore still awarded Jacob's sibling 100 House points, but warned them never to do it again.
The Headmaster revealing his plan
At some point during the school year, the International Confederation of Wizards was due to convene for a conference somewhere in Great Britain, for which Rubeus Hagrid was invited to give a demonstration on Thestrals to clear up misconceptions involving them, specifically by showing that even a Thestral that had had limited exposure to strangers could be comfortable working with several of them. To help him prepare his speech, the Headmaster advised him to solicit the assistance of Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde, hoping that working with Thestrals could help Merula, who had seen her mother murdering an Auror thus enabling her to see Thestrals, confront her past and move on. Once he had given Hagrid adequate time to get ready and time came for them to depart for the meeting, Dumbledore went to the Training Grounds to collect him, and was delighted to find that both his attempt to help the troubled pupil and the aforementioned assembly had been an immense success, the latter of which had inspired many in the crowd to start treating the "dark horses" with kindness and respect.
Dumbledore consulting Rakepick
At the start of the 1987–1988 school year, Professor Dumbledore introduced Madam Patricia Rakepick to the entire school, charging her with everything related to the Cursed Vaults and making her an official non-teaching staff member capable of docking House points. Soon, it was found that Tulip Karasu and a couple of other students were inflicted with a sleepwalking curse, which was inevitably caused by someone tampering with another Cursed Vault.
The faculty chaperoning the Celestial Ball
Despite the difficulty the school was experiencing, Dumbledore and the rest of the faculty decided it needed distraction and some happy memory, so they arranged an Astronomy-themed social gathering for the students in the Great Hall known as the Celestial Ball. Dumbledore was able to persuade Madam Pince to allow the election for the head of a student committee that would be in charge of the decorations to take place in the Library. He then summoned the students to the Great Hall and announced the event, encouraging students to partake in the election for the decorating committee. Dumbledore attended the Celestial Ball with other faculty members, at the start of which he gave a short speech commending the decorating committee's success.
After Jacob's sibling and their friends got out of the Forest Vault which they had successfully broken into, Dumbledore and Filch greeted them in the Forbidden Forest. Dumbledore told Jacob's sibling they continued to exhibit little respect for Hogwarts's rules and himself, and gave them detention in the Kitchens under Pitts's supervision for the next school year.
Dumbledore's decision to appoint Rakepick proved a costly one as Rakepick turned out to be one of R's members and nearly managed to kill Jacob's sibling and their friends before being defeated by a Garroting Gas and forced to flee but left Merula Snyde traumatised with the betrayal and use of the Cruciatus Curse when they went to the Cursed Vault. Dumbledore was away at the time and unable to stop it and was left responsible with what had happened, admitting regret for being outside to deal with threats and promising to prioritise capturing Rakepick.
The next year was by no means any less troublesome than the previous year, with Jacob's sibling and their friends more determined than ever to stop R and find the last Cursed Vault, despite Dumbledore's attempts to make them focus on their studies. He was even more disturbed with how Ben Cooper and Merula Snyde had become different due to the events of last year and that an Azkaban escapee who turned out to be an expelled student of Mahoutokoro School of Magic was working with R. When Rowan Khanna was killed by Rakepick, Dumbledore led a huge memorial to their noble sacrifice.
In this school year, Dumbledore sent several seventh-year students to the British Ministry of Magic as a part of a student programme.
Ten years after Dumbledore left Harry Potter with his uncle and aunt, the Dursleys, Harry started attending Hogwarts, not as emotionally healthy as Dumbledore might have hoped, considering the neglect he had faced at the hands of his intolerant aunt and uncle, but alive and well, and happy to be away from his horrible relatives. That year, Lord Voldemort formulated a plan to regain human form. Dumbledore and his friend Nicolas Flamel (the only known maker of the Philosopher's Stone) began to suspect that the disembodied Dark Lord was plotting to steal the invaluable object, which would be capable of restoring him to full power. Dumbledore had the stone moved to a medium security vault at Gringotts Wizarding Bank, but later had it moved to Hogwarts itself; coincidentally, on the same day that an attempted break-in was made upon the vault. It was retrieved by Hagrid, who was also taking Harry to buy his school supplies.
Dumbledore giving his customary school speech
Dumbledore and several teachers (McGonagall, Flitwick, Sprout, Snape and, dubiously, Quirrell) at Hogwarts planted magical security methods to protect the stone. Dumbledore was behind the final, and most powerful protection placed upon the stone. He enchanted the Mirror of Erised to contain the Philosopher's Stone, only to be removed by someone who did not intend to use or possess it, but only to keep it from the hands of evil. Dumbledore suspected that the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor Quirinus Quirrell was behind the plot to steal the Philosopher's Stone, while working for the weakened Lord Voldemort, and as such he asked Snape to keep an eye on him. He also anonymously returned James's Cloak of Invisibility to Harry as a Christmas present.
Dumbledore advising Harry from seeking out the Mirror of Erised again
Over a series of nights, Harry Potter proceeded to visit the Mirror of Erised as often as he could to see his parents' faces. Dumbledore found Harry visiting the mirror one night, and after explaining to Harry what the mirror was all about, told him that the mirror was to be moved and requested that Harry not go looking for it. Before heading back to bed, Harry asked Dumbledore what he saw when he looked into the mirror. Dumbledore claimed to see himself holding a pair of thick, woollen socks, telling Harry that "one can never have enough socks." However, Dumbledore was joking — the matter being a very personal one. At first, still yearning for Grindelwald's love, Albus saw himself with his former lover in the Mirror. However, after Grindelwald's defeat and having come to terms with his past guilt over his sister's death, later in his life Dumbledore would see his family whole and intact, free of any pain or suffering. It is unknown if Grindelwald, as a redeemed man, was included in these later reflections.
When Quirrell decided to make his move on getting the Philosopher's Stone, he lured Dumbledore away from the school using a false letter from the Ministry for Magic. The moment Dumbledore was on his way, he was intercepted by an owl from Ron and Hermione, which carried a letter that explained the whole situation. Dumbledore hurried back to the Underground Chambers and saved an unconscious Harry from Quirrell.
Dumbledore visiting Harry Potter in the Hospital Wing after the latter protected the Philosopher's Stone from Voldemort
In the end it was Harry who protected the Philosopher's Stone from Quirrell and Voldemort. Voldemort failed for the same reasons he had failed to murder Harry previously: due to Lily Potter's love for Harry. When Voldemort, who had possessed the body of Quirrell, ordered his servant to attack the young boy, the sacrificial protection instilled within him at the point of his mother's death killed him and forced the Dark Lord's spirit to flee. When Harry recovered from the ordeal in the hospital wing, he questioned Dumbledore about why Voldemort had tried to murder him as a baby. Dumbledore did not believe that Harry was ready to know the truth about the Prophecy Sybill Trelawney had made and told him he would know when he was older (although this would actually later turn out to be a mistake).
At the end-of-year feast, Dumbledore awarded an extra 170 house points to Gryffindor students, Harry Potter (60), Ron Weasley (50), Hermione Granger (50) and Neville Longbottom (10), respectively for bravery and logical skills, prompting Gryffindor to win the House Cup, ruining Slytherin's chance of the cup for the seventh year in a row. This may have shown an amount of bias towards Gryffindor to announce their win in such unusual circumstances.
Sometime before the next year began, Dumbledore, having never been fooled by Gilderoy Lockhart's tall tales, figured out the truth soon when Lockhart erased the memories of two wizards that Dumbledore personally knew. He realised that Lockhart had gone too far in his desire for fame and decided to track him down and make him pay for his crimes. Having the position of the Professor of the Defence Against the Dark Arts vacant proved to be useful for Dumbledore, as he offered Lockhart the job and although Lockhart was reluctant as his career as an author was progressing very well, successfully convinced him by slyly hinting that Harry Potter was a second-year student in Hogwarts, causing Lockhart to accept.
Having intended for Lockhart to show his ineptitude and fraudulence to the students and thus expose him to the public secretly, Dumbledore's decision was shocking to take by the other staff members as they never forgot Lockhart as the obnoxious attention seeker back then despite his achievements, with McGonagall asking what the students could possibly learn under a man as vain and celebrity-hungry as Lockhart. Dumbledore, however, skilfully talked himself out by pointing out that Lockhart was the only one who was willing to take it and also saying that there was a lot to learn from even a bad teacher: what not to do, how not to be.
Albus Dumbledore and colleagues discovering a blood-written message on the wall
Shortly into the school year of 1992, students again fell under attack from a beast allegedly released from the Chamber of Secrets. Under the influence of Lucius Malfoy, the Hogwarts board of governors voted to remove Dumbledore from his position as Headmaster when he proved unable to uncover the culprit; Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge also had the groundskeeper Rubeus Hagrid taken to Azkaban, acting under the theory that it had been he who opened the Chamber in 1943.
It was later revealed that first year student, Ginny Weasley, had come into possession of Tom Riddle's Diary, a bewitched object capable of interacting with whoever wrote in it. The diary slowly drained the life force from Ginny, and when the memory it contained was nearly strong enough to take physical form, it had her journey into the heart of the Chamber. However, Harry Potter was able to find the Chamber himself, and there, defeated the beast that dwelt within; Salazar Slytherin's basilisk. He also destroyed the diary with one of the basilisk's fangs, saving Ginny and defeating the nearly fully formed memory of Riddle. Harry was only able to achieve these feats by displaying an extreme amount of loyalty to Dumbledore; for only someone truly loyal to the Headmaster would be capable of summoning his pet phoenix Fawkes, who provided the tools needed for Potter to defeat Riddle and the basilisk.
Harry and Dumbledore talking after Harry slayed the Basilisk in the chamber
Dumbledore mysteriously returned to his position as Headmaster after the memory of Riddle was revealed as being behind the attacks. He commended both Harry and Ron for solving the mystery with the Special Award for Services to the School and two hundred points each for them. This secured Gryffindor for the House Cup for the second year running and again ruined Slytherin's chances, fuelling the hatred and rivalry between the two houses. He also secured Hagrid's release from Azkaban by having Ron deliver his release papers via owl and cancelled exams as a special treat, much to the delight of the students and the dismay of Hermione Granger. Lucius Malfoy was also sacked from his position as a governor of Hogwarts, much to Draco's dismay and Harry's satisfaction.
Dumbledore contemplating Tom Riddle's diary
However, Dumbledore was privately concerned by the phenomena that Harry described; a mere memory capable of taking physical form was unheard of. Dumbledore then began to suspect that Riddle's diary was in fact a Horcrux, and furthermore, considering the lack of care the Dark Lord had taken in protecting the diary, that he had created more than one.
During his final talk with Harry in his office, Dumbledore came close to telling Harry about his connection with Voldemort but refrained from doing so as he felt that twelve years old was still too young to learn the truth and he wanted Harry to enjoy this night of triumph.
The year after, the Ministry of Magic took it upon itself to increase security around Hogwarts. Sirius Black, who had been sentenced to life in Azkaban for murdering Peter Pettigrew and twelve Muggles with a single curse, had escaped from the wizarding prison. The Ministry, afraid that he was going after Harry Potter, placed a large number of Dementors at Hogwarts to try to recapture him. Dumbledore reluctantly tolerated the Dementors on school grounds but refused to allow them within the school itself.
However, the Dementors violated Dumbledore's decree when they entered the Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Hufflepuff, causing Harry to fall unconscious and fall from the sky. Dumbledore was able to prevent Harry from hitting the ground and repelled the Dementors with a Patronus.
Dumbledore hinting that Harry and Hermione should travel back in time
As the school year drew to its close, it became clear to Harry and his friends that Sirius Black had been framed for his crimes, committed by Pettigrew, who has been disguised as Scabbers for twelve years. But Sirius was captured, locked in the highest tower, and sentenced to the Dementor's Kiss. Dumbledore instantly believed Harry and his friends about Sirius's innocence, but the Minister did not. Dumbledore was incapable of over-ruling the Ministry's decision despite him being Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot.
Instead, Dumbledore told Hermione Granger to use her Time-Turner to save Sirius and in the process Buckbeak as well. Harry and Hermione's rescue mission was a success, Sirius escaped on Buckbeak. The Dementors were removed from the grounds for their attack on Harry and the attempted removal of his soul. During the rescue Harry also conjured a powerful corporal Patronus, that Dumbledore later commented on.
Harry Potter and Dumbledore seeing Remus Lupin off
Dumbledore saw Remus Lupin (the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher) off after Snape leaked his identity as a werewolf to the school. Harry was also seeing Lupin off too and Dumbledore could tell that Harry was troubled. Harry explained how guilty he felt allowing Pettigrew, the real culprit who had framed Sirius, to escape, which coincides with a prediction Trelawney made. Therefore, he feared that he may have indirectly given Voldemort a servant to return him to power. Dumbledore assured Harry that he did a noble thing in saving Pettigrew's life, forging a deep, magical bond between them, and he promised Harry that one day he'd be glad he spared Pettigrew.
At the end of the year Dumbledore began to feel uneasy about concealing the truth of Sybill Trelawney's prophecy because even though Harry was still young, he had proven himself to be exceptional, and he would have to be told soon.
Before the beginning of the new school year, the first Death Eater activity in years broke out at the Quidditch World Cup, causing Dumbledore to suspect that the second rise of Lord Voldemort was near. Later, Hogwarts played host to the first Triwizard Tournament since 1792. It was decided that only students of age would be allowed to enter their names to the Goblet of Fire, because of the dangers the tournament represented and its high death toll. Dumbledore personally drew an Age Line around the magical artefact to ensure that this rule would be impossible to break. During this year, Dumbledore employed his old friend, Alastor Moody, an ex-Auror, as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor. Moody took this position only as a personal favour to Dumbledore.
Albus Dumbledore withdrawing Harry's name from the Goblet of Fire
However, unknown to anybody, a day before Moody was set to arrive at Hogwarts, he was overpowered by Death Eaters Barty Crouch Jnr and Peter Pettigrew. On the orders of Voldemort, Crouch brewed Polyjuice Potion, which he used to impersonate Moody and take his place at Hogwarts. Crouch, in the guise of Moody, successfully fooled the Goblet of Fire and ensured that Harry Potter was chosen as the fourth champion of the Triwizard Tournament. Crouch secretly aided Potter throughout the tournament, so that in the final task it would be him to touch the Triwizard trophy first, which he had bewitched to become a Portkey.
When Harry and fellow champion Cedric Diggory touched the trophy at the same time, they were transported to the graveyard of Little Hangleton. There, Diggory was killed on the orders of Lord Voldemort, and Harry's blood was taken as the final ingredient in a potion the Dark Lord used to turn to full power. Using the Portkey, Harry was able to escape Voldemort and return to Hogwarts.
Dumbledore and Harry discovering the location of the real Alastor Moody
It was when Crouch, still in the guise of Moody, took Harry from out of Dumbledore's presence (something the real Moody never would have done in such a traumatic situation) that the headmaster realised that it was not Moody who had been at the school the whole year. Dumbledore, Snape and Minerva McGonagall quickly overpowered the Death Eater. It was in that moment that Harry realised exactly why Dumbledore was the only wizard that Voldemort ever feared. Barty then truthfully revealed the entirety of Voldemort's plot and his participation in it under the influence of Veritaserum.
Dumbledore telling a disbelieving Fudge of Voldemort's return
Despite all evidence to the contrary, Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge refused to believe that Lord Voldemort had returned to power and had Crouch subjected to the Dementor's Kiss before he could be forced to stand trial before the Wizengamot. Despite this, Dumbledore knew that Voldemort's return was real and, in response to Fudge's failure to act, reformed the Order of the Phoenix, an alliance brought together during the First Wizarding War to fight against Voldemort and his followers. Dumbledore chose to reform the Order as he feared that the start of the Second Wizarding War was lingering and inevitable to happen.
Again, Dumbledore was reminded of Harry's exceptional skill and knew that he would surely have to be told of the prophecy soon, but again he chose not to, out of a desire to spare Harry an additional burden.
Campaign to discredit Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter
The Ministry immediately began to deny Dumbledore and Harry's claims that the Dark Lord had returned, starting a smear campaign designed to slander and vilify them; in particular, Dumbledore was removed from his positions as Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot and Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards as punishment for his refusal to stay in line with Ministry propaganda. However, Dumbledore professed not to care, so long as the Ministry did not eliminate him from Chocolate Frog Cards. He confessed that he believed that Fudge's persecution of him was of his own free will and not due to the Imperius Curse, though this was small comfort.
Before the beginning of the school year, Dumbledore was made Secret-Keeper of the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix and ensured that Harry Potter's friends did not divulge any information about the Order to him, as he did not want the Order to be compromised in anyway.
Dumbledore attended Harry's trial at the Ministry, arriving three hours early at five a.m. by a handy mistake. He presented Arabella Figg for Harry's defence and offered to call Dobby to testify that Harry had not used a Hover Charm in 1992 and reminded Fudge that he himself had pardoned Harry's accidental inflation of Marjorie Dursley. He also commented on the unusual behaviour of the court holding a full criminal hearing for a simple case of underage magic. After the Wizengamot had ruled in Harry's favour, Dumbledore left without having so much as spoken to Harry or looked at him.
When the time came to choose the Prefects from the fifth-years, Dumbledore considered Harry, but out of sympathy for the ordeals he had faced and the ones still to come, he chose to spare him the added responsibility and passed it on to Ron Weasley. This decision confused some people who had assumed Harry would naturally receive it and would have shown solidarity with the young wizard.
Dolores Umbridge, the new DADA professor interrupting Dumbledore
Dumbledore had come to fear the connection that existed between the Dark Lord and Harry, and purposely avoided him throughout the school year. When signs of this connection became increasingly obvious, Dumbledore had Severus Snape attempt to teach Harry the art of Occlumency, rather than himself, as he feared that Voldemort may have been able to peer into his mind through his connection to Harry. The Ministry also began to interfere heavily at Hogwarts. They appointed Fudge's Senior Undersecretary (Dolores Umbridge) to the post of Defence Against the Dark Arts professor.
Umbridge started her reign at Hogwarts by rudely interrupting Dumbledore's Start-of-Term Feast. Things got progressively worse from there. Umbridge and Fudge slowly passed rules and regulations that syphoned the powers of the Headmaster, while increasing those of Umbridge herself. Until finally Umbridge was granted the new position of High Inquisitor of Hogwarts. In response to Umbridge and the Ministry's refusal to teach practical defensive magic, Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Ron Weasley created a group of students that met secretly to learn defence against the Dark Arts. With Harry acting as the leader and teacher, this organisation was known as Dumbledore's Army, in order to frighten the Ministry.
Dumbledore escaping the Ministry workers: Fudge, Umbridge, Dawlish and Shacklebolt
When this illegal society was uncovered, Dumbledore willingly took the blame; pointing out that it was named "Dumbledore's Army, not Potter's Army." While Fudge ordered his arrest, Dumbledore stated that he would not come quietly and easily overpowered his would-be captors with a single spell and went underground, working to aid the Order full-time. In Dumbledore's stead, Umbridge was named Headmistress of Hogwarts and took full advantage of her position and authority over students and staff alike.
Unfortunately, as Dumbledore had feared, Voldemort finally acted to use the connection between himself and Harry Potter. Using Legilimency, Voldemort created a vision that indicated that his beloved godfather, Sirius Black, had been captured by Voldemort personally and was being tortured by him within the Department of Mysteries. Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny Weasley, Luna Lovegood, and Neville Longbottom all rushed to the Ministry in the hopes of saving Sirius. However, the six students were ambushed by a group of Death Eaters, who hoped to force Harry to recover the record of the prophecy made about him and the Dark Lord. Voldemort perceived that it was too dangerous to enter the heart of the Ministry of Magic himself. Fortunately, Severus Snape was able to alert the Order to this and several members arrived in the Ministry where they battled with the Death Eaters.
Dumbledore duelling Voldemort
Near the end of the battle, Dumbledore himself arrived and swiftly captured all the Death Eaters personally; except Bellatrix Lestrange, who murdered Sirius and evaded a spell cast at her by the revered wizard. After binding the Death Eaters with an Anti-Disapparition Jinx, Dumbledore went to the atrium of the Ministry where Lestrange had been joined by Voldemort himself, who attempted to kill Harry.
Voldemort's curse, however, was prevented; Dumbledore quickly animated a golden statue to cover Harry and shield him from the curse. He animated the other statues from the Fountain of Magical Brethren to immobilise Bellatrix and alert Ministry officials. With Voldemort having arrived in the Ministry, Dumbledore took this chance to give undeniable evidence to Fudge that the Dark Lord truly had returned and fought him both to protect Harry and hold him at bay. Dumbledore displayed his extraordinary magical capabilities as he calmly countered or dodged Voldemort's attacks and returned with his own assault that steadily forced Voldemort to go on the defensive, yet Dumbledore was not fighting to kill, a fact which surprised Voldemort. Soon enough, Dumbledore managed to trap the Dark Lord within an Orb of Water just after having been saved by Fawkes, who intercepted a killing curse Voldemort had shot at Dumbledore while the latter was countering the strike of a fiery serpent that Voldemort had conjured. Though Dumbledore had failed to capture or defeat Voldemort, the Dark Lord realised himself that he could not overpower his former teacher, and so abandoned his effort and disapparated.
Dumbledore telling Harry the whole prophecy in its entirety
Before Voldemort fled the Ministry however, he briefly possessed Harry, hoping that Dumbledore would sacrifice the teenager in an attempt to kill him. However, Dumbledore did not take the bait as he cared for Harry too much to do it. Fortunately, Dumbledore did not have to resort to whatever means he would've needed to remove Voldemort from Harry himself, as the tremendous power of Harry's love, dwelt on his grief for his late godfather, inflicted great pain upon Voldemort and the Dark Lord was forced to remove himself and block his connection. With his failure to retrieve the prophecy and his attempt on Harry's life foiled, Voldemort fled the Ministry with Bellatrix, but not before he was seen by Ministry officials, including Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge. With Dumbledore's credibility realised once more, Fudge's was permanently lost. Henceforth, Dumbledore successfully ensured that Fudge removed Umbridge, pardoned Hagrid so he could return to Hogwarts and he himself would be reinstated as headmaster.
Once he was back at Hogwarts, Dumbledore consulted with a distraught Harry. After all the stress and pain that was put on the fifteen-year-old's shoulders for an entire year, coupled with the loss of his godfather, Harry finally snapped and began destroying Dumbledore's possessions in an incredible rage. However Dumbledore calmly levelled with the boy, freely admitting that Harry had every right to be angry with him, and if anything he should have been far angrier at him. He acknowledged that Sirius's death was his fault, and that if Harry let him explain, the boy would be free to rage and storm at him, even attack him if he chose to. Managing to appease Harry, he began explaining the meaning of his connection with Voldemort and asserting the meaning of the prophecy. Before the end of the year, he also had the Inquisitorial Squad disbanded and reverted any damage they did.
Dumbledore trying on Marvolo Gaunt's Ring, activating a nasty curse
During the summer of 1996, Dumbledore tracked one of Voldemort's Horcruxes to the house of the Gaunts. Dumbledore journeyed to Little Hangleton, where he found the remains of the shack hidden behind weeds and bush. Voldemort had placed many powerful enchantments around the former home of his ancestors; however, Dumbledore proved skilful enough to pass through them unharmed. When he found the Horcrux, a ring formerly owned by Marvolo Gaunt, he saw that the stone in the ring was one of the Deathly Hallows, the Resurrection Stone.
This stone, according to legend, had the power to revive the dead (but in reality, a spiritual form of the person was brought back instead, much like an echo). His desire to see his family overrode his common sense for just a moment and he placed the ring on his finger, forgetting that the ring had been cursed by Voldemort. The curse quickly spread, and were it not for his own prodigious talents, he would have died within moments. Despite this injury, Dumbledore proceeded to destroy the ring, and with it, a piece of Voldemort's soul, bringing Voldemort that much closer to defeat.
Snape's skills managing to trap the curse on the ring in Dumbledore's hand
Dumbledore quickly returned to Hogwarts, where the skills of Severus Snape managed to trap the curse in Dumbledore's hand. However, both Snape and Dumbledore knew that it would eventually spread to the rest of his body. Knowing that the curse would kill him, Dumbledore asked Snape, that when the time came, that he be the one to end Dumbledore's life, rather than Draco Malfoy. Malfoy had been given the task of assassinating the headmaster, in order to spare Draco's soul from being torn Snape had to be the one to do it. Snape later objected to the plan but was reminded by Dumbledore that it was the only way to spare him from great suffering. During this time, Dumbledore also shared his insights on Voldemort with Harry by showing him the various memories he had collected, giving Harry a greater knowledge of Voldemort's psychology that would help him in his future conflicts.
Harry and Dumbledore discussing memories of Tom Riddle
Throughout the 1996–1997 school year, Dumbledore passed on certain pieces of information to Harry Potter that would be important for the boy in his quest to destroy the Dark Lord. Dumbledore held private lessons with Harry, revealing in them much of what he had learnt about Voldemort's past, life and Horcruxes. Dumbledore revealed to Harry that he made it his business to try and find out about Lord Voldemort's past. He did this by questioning people who had known him as a child and a teenager and obtained Voldemort-related memories from them.
He collected memories from Bob Ogden, Morfin Gaunt, Horace Slughorn, and the house-elf Hokey. Using these memories, along with some of his own, he discovered that Voldemort had created six Horcruxes, an unheard-of event, been guilty of murders that he framed others for, and also figured out what the Horcruxes could be based on Voldemort's ego and his long interest in Hogwarts: Tom Riddle's Diary, Gaunt's Ring, Hufflepuff's Cup, Slytherin's Locket, Nagini, and an object of Rowena Ravenclaw's (later revealed to be her lost diadem). They dismissed the idea of a Gryffindor artefact as unlikely as only the Sorting Hat and the Sword of Gryffindor remained as items from Gryffindor himself and Voldemort did not have access to them.
Dumbledore and Harry Potter in the Crystal Cave
After much searching, Dumbledore eventually tracked another of Voldemort's Horcruxes to a cave that as a young orphan, he had once visited. As he had promised, Dumbledore allowed Harry Potter to accompany him to the cave and help destroy the Horcrux. Setting off from Hogwarts on an evening in late June 1997, he and Harry Apparated to just outside the cave, being unable to enter directly due to its protective enchantments. Once inside, Dumbledore located the Horcrux's second line of defence; a hidden doorway which only opened when it received an offering of blood.
They next found themselves in a vast chamber containing an underground lake, with a solitary island at its centre from which a faint green light was visible. After a failed attempt by Harry at Summoning the Horcrux, Dumbledore located a carefully concealed boat that would allow them safe passage across the lake. During the crossing, Harry learned of the Horcrux's third line of defence; the lake was filled with Inferi, which would attack anyone who touched the lake's water. Dumbledore instructed Harry on the use of fire as the weapon of choice against the Inferi, should it become necessary.
Arriving at the small island, they found a basin filled with glowing green potion. This last defence could not be removed by Vanishing it or scooping it out; someone would have to drink it to get to the Horcrux that lay within. Dumbledore ordered Harry to help him drink all of the potion, no matter what effects it caused, even if Harry had to force it down Dumbledore's throat.
Dumbledore preparing to drink the Emerald Potion
Dumbledore drank and he saw a vision of the duel between him, Gellert Grindelwald and Aberforth Dumbledore and Ariana's death. The drink also was weakening him and made him extremely thirsty as well and caused him great pain (the whole purpose of the potion). He couldn't bear it, but Harry succeeded at getting it down his throat by telling him it would be over soon. On his last drink he fell unconscious. After a failed attempt by Harry to revive him with Rennervate, Dumbledore woke up after his period of unconsciousness wanting water.
Albus creating a fire storm to ward off the attacking Inferi
Harry then attempted to summon water for Dumbledore with the Water-Making Spell, but this proved ineffective as the cavern was enchanted to vanish summoned water. In desperation, Harry filled a cup with water from the lake. Harry was only able to tip the water over Dumbledore's face before the Inferi climbed up out of the lake and attacked them. Harry panicked and attempted to fight back with a multitude of spells and curses, including the Impediment Jinx and Sectumsempra curse, but none of them worked since the Inferi were too numerous and had no blood to spill. Dumbledore, having regained consciousness, created a ring of fire around them that repelled the Inferi, driving them back into the lake while he and Harry escaped in the boat with the Horcrux. Harry used a small cut on his arm to reopen the hidden doorway, and once outside the cave they Disapparated back to Hogsmeade.
They would find no rest there, however, as the Battle of the Astronomy Tower had already begun. Harry and Dumbledore took brooms from behind Madam Rosmerta's bar and flew to the Astronomy Tower. Once at the Astronomy Tower, Dumbledore and an invisibility-cloaked Harry were confronted by Draco Malfoy. Before Harry could reveal himself, Dumbledore immobilised him with a silent Full Body-Bind Curse, making it so he could only watch the upcoming event.
Dumbledore being disarmed by Malfoy
Malfoy disarmed Dumbledore, and admitted that he, Draco, was behind the series of attacks on Hogwarts students, and that Voldemort had ordered him to kill Dumbledore. Dumbledore revealed that he knew of Draco's mission and of the attempts on his life with the Opal Necklace and poisoned mead but allowed him to remain in Hogwarts for knowing Voldemort would kill him if he was exposed and expelled. Dumbledore offered Draco protection, and promised to hide Draco and his mother where Voldemort would never find them. Draco ultimately could not bring himself to kill the Headmaster, even after the arrival and encouragement of several Death Eaters, who were smuggled into the castle by Draco.
Dumbledore's death
However, Snape — who had been called by Filius Flitwick to assist the Order of the Phoenix, sometime previously — arrived at the Tower and, after Dumbledore pleaded with him, in a way that did not expose Snape's true intentions, killed the Headmaster, blasting his body off the tower and falling to the ground below.
Harry kneeling over Dumbledore's body
A while later after the battle was over, Harry found Dumbledore's body lying dead on the ground in front of hundreds of staring people, his body broken from the fall. Harry found the locket and read a letter written by R.A.B. and realised that it was not a Horcrux, meaning the locket was a fake. Harry neither knew nor cared what this message meant, and he felt that he and Dumbledore had accomplished nothing that night and that the latter had weakened himself by drinking the potion for nothing. Harry started crying over Dumbledore's corpse as well as straightening his half-moon spectacles upon his crooked nose and Harry wiping a trickle of blood from the dead Headmaster's mouth with his (Harry's) own sleeve.
Dumbledore's funeral
Sometime in early July, a funeral was held for him, attended by Hogwarts students and staff, Ministry of Magic officials (including Cornelius Fudge, Rufus Scrimgeour, Dolores Umbridge and Percy Weasley), centaurs, members of the Order of the Phoenix (except Severus Snape, due to his covert status, and Mundungus Fletcher, due to his imprisonment in Azkaban), Hogsmeade residents including Dumbledore's brother Aberforth, Fawkes, Hagrid's half-brother Grawp, Merpeople, Tom the landlord of the Leaky Cauldron, Madame Maxime from Beauxbatons Academy of Magic, Bass player of the Weird Sisters Donaghan Tremlett, driver of the Knight Bus Ernie Prang, Madam Malkin of the robe shop in Diagon Alley, the lady who pushed the trolley on the Hogwarts Express, as well as many other witches and wizards.
Albus Dumbledore's legacy was hugely significant and entailed by decades of suffering, torture, tragedy, success, love, prosperity, and everything in between.
Albus Dumbledore's morals and care he put into what he dreamed and means of doing it
He was destined for glory by what he dreamed of and the aspirations he had during his youth including what he accomplished in his early youth. Though in his youth he wanted to rule over the world of the non-magic people, he didn't do it in any bad matter like his boyfriend, Gellert Grindelwald tended to. He learned early in his teenage years that power and being the best could end very badly and was always not the best result. Though he did learn many things, for instance, he used the way he worded things for his own good as using and manipulating people for instance, "For The Greater Good".
Dumbledore's funeral
It was Dumbledore's wish to be laid to rest within Hogwarts grounds, and his supporters, friends, and colleagues ensured that his wish was carried out. Despite the fact that no other Headmasters or Headmistresses had ever been laid to rest at Hogwarts before, the Ministry respected Dumbledore's wishes due to his great standing in the wizarding community. During his funeral, directly after a ceremony official gave his eulogy, his body was encased in bright white flames that gave off smoke in strange patterns, and Harry Potter thought he saw the form of a phoenix fly out of the blaze. When it subsided, Dumbledore was closed in this tomb.
The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore
After his death, Dumbledore's reputation was smeared somewhat by Rita Skeeter, who wrote an insulting biography called The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore. This depicted him in a highly unfavourable light, including suggesting that he delayed his attack on Gellert Grindelwald because he still held lingering affection for him.
Voldemort breaking into Dumbledore's tomb
In 1998, Lord Voldemort, during his search for the Elder Wand, demanded the location of the wand from Gellert Grindelwald in his cell in Nurmengard prison. Grindelwald refused to tell him anything, possibly out of a desire not to see his old friend's grave desecrated, or as a sign of remorse for all the atrocities he committed earlier in his life. However, Voldemort eventually deduced that Dumbledore had won the Elder Wand from Grindelwald, who himself stole it from Gregorovitch. Voldemort flew to Hogwarts and used his own wand to crack open the White Tomb from head to foot, and then removed the sheets from around Dumbledore's body, allowing him to take the wand within, which had been buried with its owner. He did not realise that Harry Potter had won the allegiance of the wand from Draco during a skirmish in the Malfoy Manor not long before.
Harry Potter speaking with Albus Dumbledore in Limbo
As it turned out, the night of Dumbledore's death was not the last time Harry saw him. After finding out he was one of Voldemort's Horcruxes (Voldemort having accidentally made him one the night he tried to kill him), Harry bravely walked into Voldemort's camp to be killed, just as Dumbledore had (reluctantly) planned. But Voldemort's Killing Curse once again failed to kill Harry. Instead, Harry entered a limbo state, where he spoke with Dumbledore's spirit. Dumbledore explained to Harry everything he had not told him when he was alive: the nature of the Deathly Hallows, his friendship with Gellert Grindelwald and a number of other things.
Most significantly, he revealed that Harry was not dead because, when Voldemort had used Harry's blood to restore his body, he had unintentionally linked Harry's life to his own, with the result that Voldemort's curse had "killed" only the fragment of his soul that had remained in Harry all these years. Despite the anger and resentment he felt toward his old mentor, Harry also attempted to console Dumbledore when asked if he had been any better than Voldemort in his quest for power; Harry pointed out that Dumbledore had never killed if he could avoid it, and argued that Dumbledore's search for the Hallows, as opposed to any attempts to create Horcruxes, made him completely different from Voldemort, fully reconciling with his protégé.
After he had finished their talk, Dumbledore and Harry parted ways for the time being: Harry returned to the mortal world and Dumbledore moved, as he would put it, "on". He was the only Headmaster to be laid to rest on the Hogwarts grounds, after Hagrid argued that no other Headmaster had ever given as much to the school as Dumbledore had. His portrait also remained at Hogwarts. After Voldemort's death and Harry revealing that he was the true master of the Elder Wand, he said to Dumbledore's portrait that he was going to return the wand to his tomb where it would remain until he died and should he be undefeated, he would be the wand's last master which would break its power. He only used the wand for one feat: to repair his own wand which had been broken earlier.
Harry and Ginny Potter's second son was named Albus Severus Potter, after Dumbledore and Severus Snape.
The portrait of Dumbledore had also spoken to a new generation of Hogwarts students in the 2000s and 2010s when they were in the Headmistress's office. He was known to have talked to three students, Daniel Page, Ivy Warrington and their friend at least twice during their years at the school.
Dumbledore's moving portrait, featuring Fawkes
In 2020, after his son, Albus Potter, got injured due to using a prototype Time-Turner to save Cedric Diggory, Harry visited the portrait of Dumbledore. He gave Harry advice of trying to see his son the way he is rather than make him be something he cannot be and later departed.
Harry approached him again after hearing Albus and Scorpius Malfoy, the son of Draco Malfoy, are kidnapped by Delphini, the daughter of Lord Voldemort, where he asked Harry what he was doing and answered Harry's questions. Feeling like he was left "cleaning after the messes" Dumbledore left after he died, Harry asked him to leave. In response, Dumbledore tried to justify his actions. He stated that he wanted to fight Voldemort on his behalf but he "felt like he loved Harry too much to not realise that he should have trusted Harry more". He later gave Harry advice and left his portrait once more.
Dumbledore's reputation was so significant that even years after his death, the only reason Albus and Scorpius avoided contacting him for help when they found themselves stuck in 1981 was because they were concerned that even the knowledge of their existence would taint Dumbledore's future plans, as it was agreed that he had always known enough to know what to do or not to do and awareness of details such as Harry's future son might impact his plans.
Albus Dumbledore was tall and thin, with silver hair and beard (auburn in his youth) so long that they could be tucked into his belt. He had a very long and crooked nose that looked as if it had been broken at least twice. (It appears and is implied that his brother's punch during their sister's funeral played a role in shaping his nose.) He was also said to have long and skilful fingers. His eyes were described to be a brilliant, soul-piercing shade of blue, and usually twinkled with kindness and mischief.
When he became genuinely angry, however, Dumbledore would transform from a benign-looking, bright-eyed old man into a wizard even more terrifying than Lord Voldemort himself, with a face that was a classic portrait of cold fury and an aura of power that made him seem as if he was giving off burning heat. Indeed, Harry had — after witnessing a rare moment of Dumbledore's furious rage — confessed to fully understanding why people always said that Dumbledore was the only wizard Voldemort had ever feared.
Dumbledore wore half-moon spectacles and a colourful array of robes, ranging from purple to crimson-red. He once claimed to have a scar above his left knee in the precise shape of a map of the London Underground, but whether or not he actually did is unknown. His demeanour was often — if not always — serene and ethereal, and he usually spoke in a calm, pleasant voice even when Harry thought that he was actually furious.
During the last year of his life, Dumbledore's right hand was scarred when he donned the cursed Marvolo Gaunt's Ring. Had Severus Snape not intervened with a counter-curse, Dumbledore would have died within minutes. Regardless, the curse left his hand blackened and dead-looking, and no amount of healing could repair the appearance. According to Snape, the curse would eventually spread itself from the contained hand and Dumbledore was doomed to die in no more than one year's time. Whether this means the blackening dead-look appearance would spread throughout the entire body is unknown. Death, however, served to restore him to full health and strength: his spirit was described as walking sprightly and upright, with hands that were both whole and white and undamaged, and looking exactly how Harry remembered him to be.
Dumbledore's flamboyant attire
Considered by many to be "the most powerful wizard of all time", Dumbledore was benevolent and wise, a great wizard in the vein of Merlin. He had an almost unearthly calm and relaxed demeanour and almost constantly gave off an aura of serenity and composure, rarely displaying intense emotions of anger or fear. He was known for typically speaking in a calm, collected voice, and being firm, but reasonable and kind. He was always courteous, even to people who he found rude or in the case of Fenrir Greyback, disgusting. However, despite his benign nature, it is said that Dumbledore was the only wizard Lord Voldemort ever truly feared.
Dumbledore was notably eccentric. He was quite fond of knitting patterns and frequently wore flamboyant clothing (at one point, he is seen wearing a flowered bonnet that he received from a Wizard Cracker). In particular, he had a somewhat odd taste in sweets: he enjoyed Muggle sweets relatively unknown in the wizarding world (particularly sherbet lemons) and the password to his office, supposedly that of his current favourite sweet, was often peculiar choices such as Acid Pops and Cockroach Clusters. In addition, he had a liking for chamber music as well as ten-pin bowling. He often used humour to make people feel comfortable in his presence. In fact, his noted eccentricity may have been at least partly his using humour to appear less threatening. Dumbledore has been known to be quite philosophical; often, very few people have the understanding (or patience) to comprehend his philosophies.
He was apparently a fan of the Puddlemere United Quidditch team, as he wished them luck in the upcoming season in his introduction to Quidditch Through the Ages.
As a supremely talented wizard, Dumbledore showed numerous examples of extraordinary abilities. His capabilities as a wizard were combined with his extraordinary intellect and extremely cunning and subtle mind that allowed him to comprehend human nature and turn the better aspects of humanity (trust, love and friendship) to Voldemort's disadvantage in particular. Due to this, Dumbledore wielded extraordinary powers of deduction that allowed him to be completely unfooled by any charades who could fool even the entire wizarding world and recognise instantly any deception that may have initially fooled him at the slightest of slip-ups, as shown repeatedly when he quickly figured out Quirrell was distracting him with a letter he faked was from the Minister of Magic, was never fooled by Lockhart's books due to having knew what he truly was and quickly realised the truth, and deduced that Moody was actually Crouch Jnr the moment he asked Harry to be brought to his office.
During his Hogwarts career, especially as Headmaster, Dumbledore always maintained his composure, even in situations that would terrify others. Being attacked by Ministry officials, the opening/reopening of the Chamber of Secrets, having Dementors at the school, being surrounded by a plethora of Inferi and soon thereafter, staring death in the face (although they may have made him uneasy for the safety of others) did not frighten him. This was shown best at his duel with Voldemort, when he engaged in small talk with him in a calm, almost sardonically humourous way, despite Voldemort's tremendous duelling prowess and his attempts to murder him. Dumbledore was verbally and utterly unafraid of death and was obviously never scared of Voldemort himself, but rather what he may/could do to those he cared for, and he was also not afraid of being exposed to great torment.
An example of this was in The Cave, when knowing that the Potion would cause him severe pain and distress without knowing exactly what would happen to him, Dumbledore did not hesitate to drink it. Despite this, Dumbledore was capable of fear and feared, above all else, that he had actually cast the spell that ended his sister Ariana's life. However, he was capable of facing his fears, as shown by how he indirectly confessed his guilt to Leta Lestrange, and by how he later ultimately mustered the strength to confront Grindelwald and end the global wizarding war after years of watching Grindelwald's rampage. Therefore, Dumbledore's Boggart is said to be his sister's corpse.
While Dumbledore (at least in his later years) never displayed arrogance or conceit, he had no use for false modesty either. If a situation warranted it, he was perfectly willing to acknowledge his virtually peerless intelligence and power. He once told Harry that he was fairly confident in his ability to defeat Gellert Grindelwald despite the latter's own great skill and possession of the Elder Wand. Dumbledore's portrait also professed to Harry that he had considered personally fighting Voldemort for Harry, further showing Dumbledore's self-confidence. On the one occasion where he did confront Voldemort, he appeared entirely unconcerned throughout the entirety of their duel. However, Dumbledore also understood that he had his weaknesses and blind spots just as any other man and worked hard to keep them in check.
Albus Dumbledore proving to a young Tom Riddle that the Headmaster was a wizard
More than anything else, Dumbledore was motivated by his belief in the power of the human spirit. He also had a deep capacity for love, frequently reminding Harry that love was the greatest magic of all. Dumbledore believed in the good in everyone and insisted on giving second chances. He notably argued strongly against the expulsions of Newton Scamander, and later Rubeus Hagrid, as well as refraining from expelling Jacob's sibling, despite the latter repeatedly breaking school rules. Dumbledore also allowed Remus Lupin to be a pupil at his school and later a professor, despite the fact that Remus was a werewolf. He had a great friendship with Hagrid, despite many not trusting the half-Giant.The greatest example of this, however, is Dumbledore's relationship with Severus Snape, in whom Dumbledore was willing to hold a considerable amount of faith after Severus had shown remorse. Dumbledore even saw a possibility for good in Tom Riddle as a child, and was open to giving him a second chance, despite the fact that Tom had already revealed himself to be a cruel sociopath and bully even at a young age, though he kept a careful eye on Tom Riddle during his Hogwarts career rather than simply hoping for the best.
Although he was devoted to Riddle's defeat after he became Voldemort, Dumbledore was genuinely regretful on how the days he could have easily intimidated Riddle into admitting his wrongdoings and taking responsibility for them were long gone, proving he felt a level of remorse for never managing to do anything significant to change Riddle. In addition, Dumbledore also believed the rumours of Grindelwald showing remorse for his crimes during his time in prison and showed a level of respect and gratitude for Grindelwald's concealment of the true location of the Elder Wand for a shred of redemption even if it was in vain.
Albus Dumbledore in thought
Dumbledore was highly perceptive and psychologically canny; his knowledge of people's true personality went beyond being simply a good judge of character. This was never more apparent than in his complex insights into Voldemort's psyche, which he pieced together with Harry to deduce where the Horcruxes were hidden. However, this insight also made him extraordinarily good at manipulating people, which he was perfectly willing to do if he thought it necessary. Perhaps the most blatant example of this was with regard to Severus Snape, as he used Snape's love for the late Lily Evans to manipulate him into helping him protect Harry Potter, her son, despite all the risks it entailed and despite Snape's bitterness and hatred towards Harry's father. Another note worth mentioning in this area, is Dumbledore conjured a bottle of gin to help ease Mrs Cole during their conversation. He did not offer her a glass, but simply produced it, knowing she would drink it. A lesser note of his emotional insight was with Gilderoy Lockhart: despite Lockhart having fooled every inhabitant in the wizarding world with his books, Dumbledore, having knew what he truly was, was completely unable to be tricked by Lockhart and he was able to effortlessly manipulate Lockhart into taking the job of DADA Professor by slyly hinting Harry Potter was in Hogwarts attending his second year so he can expose him. He was also the only person ever encountered by the young Tom Riddle who the latter was not able to charm.
In spite of Dumbledore's many extraordinary qualities, he was also a somewhat Machiavellian figure. He could be stoically pragmatic and was extremely prone to secrecy. He spent a short portion of his youth concocting plans with Gellert Grindelwald for global domination over Muggles, in the process treating his ill sister with neglect. Whilst Dumbledore was never a deliberately cruel man, at times, he was too far-sighted, making choices that he believed to be for the greater good and overall benefit of humanity even if it deeply hurt some of the people around him. For example, he placed Harry Potter with the Dursley family despite knowing that they would be unlikely to treat him well, as pointed out by Professor McGonagall, all for the sake of keeping him alive.
Dumbledore's greatest personality flaw, which he explained to Harry in 1998, was his desire for power. Particularly in his younger days, he acknowledged that he had been quite selfish and that because of his extraordinary abilities, he had wanted fame, power, and glory for himself. When he and Gellert Grindelwald were in school, they made plans to enslave Muggles and re-establish wizards as the natural rulers of the world. However, when his sister Ariana Dumbledore was killed during a duel between himself, Aberforth Dumbledore, and Grindelwald, any desire to accomplish this goal left him. The incident led to him declining any attempts by others to offer him positions of great political authority, and he refused to take the post of Minister of Magic at least three times.
Dumbledore, while often kind and calm, did have a very serious side of himself and was capable of a terrifying wrath. This was rarely seen but appears to be well known and combined with his exceptional magical abilities, made very few of his allies willing to cross him and almost all of his enemies feared him, to the point that even Lord Voldemort and Gellert Grindelwald were known for fearing him, despite their own incredible magical powers, wrath and status as the two most dangerous Dark wizards in history. Even a slight exertion of Dumbledore's serious side and anger could intimidate the likes of Harry Potter, and even the Minister of Magic Cornelius Fudge, evidenced when they both were shocked when Dumbledore made it clear quite firmly that Hagrid did not open the Chamber of Secrets, despite Dumbledore not openly showing anger. Additionally, rather than shouting when Harry entered Hogwarts with the Ford Anglia, and when Harry failed to get Slughorn's memory, just an expression of calm disappointment on both occasions was enough to make Harry feel ashamed to the point that he found it preferable if Dumbledore shouted at him.
At the apex of Dumbledore's wrath, which happened extremely rarely, such as when he apprehended Barty Crouch Jnr, who impersonated Moody and almost killed Harry, Dumbledore was described as "being struck with cold, ancient fury". In fact, during this rare moment of intense anger (caused by Dumbledore's realisation that, not only had Voldemort been resurrected, but also that he had been expertly deceived for an entire year), Dumbledore was so terrifying, that even Minerva McGonagall and Severus Snape, both extremely powerful and stern wizards who rarely displayed emotions, were clearly uneasy. Harry himself (who was also rather terrified of his reaction) fully understood then why Dumbledore was the only wizard that Voldemort ever feared. In addition to being completely unintimidated but rather saddened by Harry's profound bursts of rage regarding Sirius (though Dumbledore knew full well he completely deserved Harry's anger), in all the other times Harry unleashed his anger, Dumbledore proved himself capable of quelling even Harry's anger with just a slight exertion of his dark side, as he silenced Harry's questions regarding his judgement of Draco and Snape and even silenced Harry's anger with just indicating he had crossed the line, showing even Harry's rage could not match the seriousness and fury the old but extraordinarily powerful wizard was capable of. As a somewhat interesting side note, his displays of rage were virtually opposite in character to those of Voldemort. Where Voldemort's temper was seen to be highly volatile, impulsive, and somewhat random, Dumbledore's most angry moments were characterised by cold, deliberate, highly controlled action.
Dumbledore's grief
Dumbledore was haunted by his traumatic family history. In particular, he was riddled with guilt over the circumstances surrounding the death of his sister. He felt enormous remorse for his selfishness and was tortured for the rest of his life by the possibility that he might have been the one who cast the spell that killed his sister, to the point that he delayed facing Grindelwald until there was no other choice, due to him fearing what his former friend might have known about the death of Ariana. However, he had enough sense to realise that he will inevitably have to duel Grindelwald and therefore he took the position as the Professor of DADA to prepare students for the upcoming dark times. Additionally, Dumbledore's own guilt allowed him to comfort Leta Lestrange over her own guilt in the role she had in her brother Corvus' death. Indeed, it was Dumbledore's advice to Leta that induced her to save Credence Barebone from Yusuf Kama's revenge.
Dumbledore's excitement
Dumbledore wasn't afraid of death as he believed "to the well organised mind, death was but "the next great adventure". Even during his short time in Limbo, he expressed his excitement to Harry for what awaits him. At times, Dumbledore could feel the pressure of his role in the world acutely and relied on his Pensieve to deal with them. He kept vials of memories which he could view in his Pensieve, some of which were his own. He often used this to find connections he might have missed before, and also when he felt he had "too many memories".
Dumbledore casting a very powerful firestorm
Dumbledore was an outstandingly talented wizard. Even while still only a student of Hogwarts, his prodigious brilliance excelled in all fields of magic to the point of being recognised by his friend Elphias Doge as the most brilliant student to ever attend the school, possibly rivalled only by the equally prodigious Tom Riddle, and attaining many awards and prizes that required incredible magical capability to obtain. As an adult, Dumbledore had become an extraordinarily powerful and accomplished wizard, deeply knowledgeable and and proficient in all areas of magic. Nearly unrivalled in abilities and powers, he was admired and feared by even others of outstanding magical talent, considered to be "the greatest wizard of all time" by many. Indeed, Dumbledore was the only wizard capable of defeating Gellert Grindelwald, and later, even in his extremely advanced age, intimidated and surpassed Lord Voldemort himself.
Dumbledore pushing back Lord Voldemort in a clash of magical power
Albus's Patronus in the shape of the Phoenix
Dumbledore non-verbally and wandlessly changing the colours of the house banners in the Great Hall
Dumbledore conjuring a firestorm to ward off the Inferi and protect Harry Potter
Dumbledore's Pensieve
Dumbledore's office housed "a number of curious... instruments." Among them was a Pensieve, a stone receptacle used to store and review memories, which witches and wizards are able to extract from their heads as a type of fluid. Harry first discovered this device to witness Dumbledore's memory of Igor Karkaroff's trial before the Wizengamot, and also used it to view Severus Snape's memories of childhood. During the private lessons between Harry and Dumbledore, the Pensieve was used to view a variety of memories about Tom Riddle's past.
Dumbledore was also seen using the Deluminator, a device for removing and later returning light, and for use as a homing device. It was confirmed when the object was inherited by Ron that the Deluminator was of Dumbledore's own design. Dumbledore was the possessor and master of the Elder Wand, an extremely powerful wand known also as the "Wand of Destiny" or the "Deathstick", and one of the Deathly Hallows, until he was disarmed by Draco Malfoy at the top of the Astronomy Tower. The wand's allegiance was then transferred to Harry Potter nearly a year later. Unlike many of the wand's previous owners, Dumbledore kept its identity a closely guarded secret.
He also owned a pet phoenix named Fawkes, who left Hogwarts Castle after Dumbledore's death. It was revealed in that two of Fawkes's feathers form the magical cores of both Harry's and Voldemort's wands. This was another testament to his skill as phoenixes were notoriously difficult to domesticate, although they have been long associated with the Dumbledore family. His great-great grandfather was said to have owned a phoenix, as did his alleged relative Credence Barebone/Aurelius Dumbledore. According to legend, a phoenix will appear to anyone of the Dumbledore Family in dire need.
Professor Dumbledore kept a journal in which he would have written in regularly. He also kept a pocket watch with twelve hands, but instead of numbers it had little planets moving around the edge.
In a long career, Albus Dumbledore served as teacher of at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, first as its Defence Against the Dark Arts instructor and later as a Transfiguration Professor, (and eventual promotion to Head of the Transfiguration department), making contributions to such learned, scholarly publications as Transfiguration Today, Challenges in Charming, and The Practical Potioneer, ultimately rounding his career off by becoming arguably the finest and most revered Headmaster the school had ever seen. He was also a famous alchemist who worked with Nicolas Flamel, the only known maker of the Philosopher's Stone, and was credited with discovering the twelve uses of dragon's blood.
Dumbledore became the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, and Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards. He was removed from these posts during his conflict with the Ministry of Magic under Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge but was reinstated when the Ministry was forced to acknowledge that he had correctly warned that Voldemort had returned. He held the Order of Merlin, First Class, for Grand Sorcery.
Percival and Kendra Dumbledore, his parents
Albus's relationship with his parents was not very clear. However, it can be theorised that he most likely did not hold his father in high regard, as he was imprisoned in Azkaban for magically attacking three Muggle boys who had inflicted permanent psychological damage on Ariana. According to Aberforth, their mother taught Albus secrecy. Given that she read stories to him, it can be assumed that Albus had a good relationship with her, or at least a better one than the one she had with Aberforth. Her death made Albus feel angry and bitter, as it left him with the responsibility of a damaged sister and a wayward brother, and he thought himself trapped and wasted.
Later on, during his conversation with Harry in limbo, he confessed that he truly loved each and every one of his family but was blinded by his ambition and his madness. He had originally intended to use the Resurrection Stone to bring back his parents, so that the heavy responsibility on his shoulders would be lifted. After Ariana's tragic and unexpected death, he planned, instead, to use the stone (if he ever found it, that is) to bring back his parents and his sister to apologise to them. This desire, however, ultimately caused his death: the Resurrection Stone had become part of a ring whose curse infected him the instant he put it on and slowly killed him.
Ariana Dumbledore, his younger sister
Albus Dumbledore was Ariana Dumbledore's eldest brother and was not nearly as close to his younger siblings as they were to each other. Although he loved his younger sister, Albus was resentful when he had to take responsibility for her after their mother's death, which forced him to stay at home, and thus abandon his ambitious plans. When he and Gellert Grindelwald made plans to subjugate Muggles and take power in the wizarding world, Albus planned to bring Ariana with them, but Aberforth pointed out that she was in no state to go. This launched a three-way duel between the brothers and Grindelwald, and Ariana was accidentally killed in the fray. Albus was devastated by his sister's death and for the rest of his life, Albus never forgave himself for the part he played in her death and always felt tremendous guilt and remorse over it. While he hardly ever spoke of this guilt to anyone, Dumbledore admitted it to Leta Lestrange in an effort to get her to open up about her own guilt and admitted that he had not loved Ariana enough during her life. Dumbledore was also haunted with the fear that it had been him to kill Ariana, to the point that he delayed facing Grindelwald for years.
From then on, Albus's Boggart would be Ariana's corpse.
Aberforth Dumbledore, his younger brother
Aberforth Dumbledore was Albus's younger brother. Although Albus loved him, the two brothers were not close to each other, as they were very different persons in personality, with Aberforth resenting being in Albus's shadow. Despite not being close, it cannot be doubted that Albus loved and cared for him dearly, evidenced by the fact that even though he resented having to stay at home, Albus still refused to allow Aberforth to stop his education out of concern of his brother's future. While Albus likely alienated him, along with Ariana, during his obsession with Gellert Grindelwald, when Grindelwald attacked Aberforth, Albus immediately came to his brother's aid and fought against his lover, clearly displaying that even at the height of his worst years, Albus still cared for Aberforth's well-being immensely. After Ariana's death, Albus and Aberforth's relationship became very estranged, as Aberforth blamed Albus for the death of the sister he and his mother spent so much time caring for. Although they eventually established a cordial relationship with each other, with Aberforth joining the Order of Phoenix when Albus founded it and attending Albus's funeral, Aberforth and Albus still remained distant as Aberforth was not able to forgive Albus. Albus himself made no attempts to change his brother's opinion about him, apparently acknowledging that he deserved it and accepting it as his punishment for their tragic family past, which Albus had a hand in. However, Albus was nevertheless saddened that he and Aberforth never could reconcile, and he did have a strong desire to make peace with him, as whenever he looked into the Mirror of Erised later in his life, Albus would see himself and Aberforth reconciled, and all of his family returned to him. Albus also came to believe that Aberforth was a better person than he was due to his much greater devotion to Ariana, which Harry Potter disagreed with. Aberforth himself however, eventually changed his opinions of his brother when Harry Potter helped him realise what Albus's intention really was and had forgiven him, as he chose to participate in the Battle of Hogwarts, helping the students and faculty of Hogwarts and the Hogsmeade residents to protect the school where Albus served as Headmaster for almost half of his lifetime, from Lord Voldemort, as well as to allow Harry time to find what he thought to be the last Horcrux.
Gellert Grindelwald, his former lover and great enemy
Dumbledore first met Gellert Grindelwald when he was seventeen. They were introduced by Grindelwald's great aunt, Bathilda Bagshot. They got along almost instantly, according to Bagshot. They were ultimately united by their desire to have the Deathly Hallows. They also made a blood pact, and they swore an oath never to fight each other. At one point they were romantically involved and had a very passionate relationship; so passionate that Dumbledore would, for a time, see Grindelwald in the Mirror of Erised as his greatest desire.
They were great friends and lovers for two months until Aberforth, Dumbledore's brother, confronted them over the neglect of Ariana Dumbledore. Grindelwald lost control during the argument and attacked Aberforth. Dumbledore rushed forward to defend his brother, and during the duel his sister, Ariana, was killed. Grindelwald fled and Dumbledore ended their friendship, although his romantic desires did not subside.
For a long and tumultuous time in his life, Albus's greatest and most desperate desire was his former best friend and lover, Gellert Grindelwald
Grindelwald spent a number of years gaining power in Europe while Dumbledore spent his time teaching young wizards at Hogwarts. While Grindelwald and his army terrorised Europe, Dumbledore remained in Britain and refused adamantly to face Grindelwald. While this was partially due to the Blood Pact, which also kept Britain safe as Grindelwald couldn't attempt an attack as it would mean a duel with Albus, which would violate the Pact, Dumbledore showed he still had lingering affection for Grindelwald, as when he looked at the Mirror of Erised at this time in his life, he saw Grindelwald. Nevertheless, Dumbledore tried to indirectly participate in Grindelwald's defeat, and he used Newt to do it by sending him to America with the injured Thunderbird Frank, knowing somehow Grindelwald had infiltrated America in search for the Obscurial there, which Dumbledore knew he intended to use against him. However, after the death of Leta Lestrange, Dumbledore put aside whatever affection he had for Grindelwald and was determined to break the Blood Pact.
While not having the vial destroyed, he made sure that the wizarding world would survive Grindelwald's reign of terror by providing whatever intellectual and possibly magical assistance he could. After finally succeeding, Dumbledore directly tracked down Grindelwald. Upon finding each other, Dumbledore and Grindelwald initiated a legendary duel of 1945, unleashing all of their extraordinary magical capabilities on each other, the display being so amazing that it remains among the greatest magical battles ever in history. Dumbledore eventually triumphed in the end, despite Grindelwald's mastery of the Elder Wand, becoming the wand's new master and he then brought in Grindelwald to the authorities of the magical world, who imprisoned him in his own prison Nurmengard.
Years later in 1998, Grindelwald refused to give any information to Lord Voldemort about the Elder Wand despite the fact that he was imprisoned, wandless and face-to-face with the only Dark wizard ever considered greater and more powerful than himself. This seems to indicate that Grindelwald no longer held the views of those who practised the Dark Arts and had contemplated and felt remorse over his actions and that his lie was a last act to repent for his sins, something which Dumbledore acknowledged to be true, implying despite Grindelwald's crimes, Dumbledore still retained some fondness for him and believed that he truly had felt remorse over his crimes during his imprisonment in Nurmengard. It was speculated by Harry Potter that Grindelwald had given his life to prevent Voldemort from desecrating Dumbledore's tomb, possibly indicating Grindelwald still respected and cared for Dumbledore despite all that happened.
Newt Scamander, his former student and friend
Dumbledore's relationship with the famous magizoologist was very close. During Newt's time at Hogwarts, Dumbledore was his Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor. When one of Leta Lestrange's experiments involving a magical beast went too far, endangering the life of another student. Newt did not want to see a friend thrown out of school, so he took the blame for Leta's actions, and was thus sentenced to be expelled from Hogwarts in her place. Albus developed unending trust and loyalty to him after he argued strongly against his expulsion. It is unclear whether the expulsion was enforced or not, or if it was temporary or permanent. However, Newt was allowed to keep his wand. After school Newt probably was in regular contact with his teacher. Newt respected his mentor enough to do tasks for him. Dumbledore told him where to find one ill-bred Thunderbird and later sent his former student to New York to release this beast, whose natural environment was Arizona. At this time Newt helped capture Gellert Grindelwald, who was trying to convince Obscurial Credence Barebone to join his ranks. Newt was extremely loyal to Dumbledore, because when he appealed to his travel ban, he lied to the committee members that he had gone to the United States on his orders. When Grindelwald managed to escape, Albus felt that he would not be able to fight the Dark wizard, so he asked Scamander for help. Dumbledore admired him, because he didn't care about power or popularity, which is quite ironic as Dumbledore once craved at least one of these things. He sent Newt to Paris to rescue Credence, who survived battle in New York, but Newt was reluctant, nevertheless he was willing to accept the address of a safe-house. The rumours of Newton's potential travel to France reached the British Ministry of Magic, and a delegation, including Newt's brother Theseus Scamander, Leta Lestrange and Torquil Travers, was sent to Hogwarts Castle to question Dumbledore. Albus only pretended that he did not know anything about it and said that Newt was not a great follower of orders. During the Battle in Lestrange family Mausoleum, a vial of Dumbledore's and Grindelwald's blood pact was stolen from Grindelwald, however, without his knowledge by a Niffler belonging to Newt Scamander. Shortly thereafter, Scamander brought it to Dumbledore at Hogwarts. Dumbledore expressed regret at Leta's death in the mausoleum. Newt in turn did not ask Dumbledore why he would form a blood pact with Grindelwald but simply asked him to destroy it, showing respect for his privacy. Although it apparently took years, Dumbledore clearly managed to abolish the blood pact, allowing him to finally defeat Grindelwald in a legendary duel.
Voldemort, his former student and greatest enemy
Dumbledore personally approached Mrs Cole, the caretaker of the orphanage in which Tom Riddle resided to enrol the latter in Hogwarts. Dumbledore met Tom Riddle for the first time there and was unaware at the time that he had just met the person who would become the most powerful and dangerous Dark wizard of all time. He was however intrigued by Tom Riddle as his powers were surprisingly well-developed by such a young wizard who had begun to use them consciously. Dumbledore was also disturbed by the fact that Tom was a Parselmouth, a rare ability supposedly connected with the Dark Arts, although not as much as the fact that Tom had obvious instincts for cruelty, secrecy and domination which was proved by the fact that Tom had used his magic to hurt the other children in the orphanage. Dumbledore then returned to Hogwarts intending to keep an eye upon Tom Riddle, as he was alone and friendless, a dangerous situation, but at that point Dumbledore, ever the man who staunchly believed in second chances and redemption, still considered Riddle as being not a lost cause and could repent.
When then-headmaster Armando Dippet confided in Dumbledore about Tom Riddle approaching him about staying on after graduation to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts — which he only refused due to Tom's age, suggesting he ask again in a few years — Dumbledore advised him against it. Though he explained none of his reasons to Professor Dippet, for the headmaster was just as charmed by Tom as the other professors, Dumbledore felt uneasy about the request and did not want Riddle back at Hogwarts in a position of power.
Tom Riddle and Dumbledore
While Dumbledore was aware of Tom Riddle's transformation and rise to power, he still maintained contact with the latter, even allowing him to visit the school for a supposed job interview. When Tom, or Lord Voldemort as he began calling himself, visited the school, Dumbledore was courteous. However, Dumbledore suspected that Voldemort wanted more than a job, likely wanting to raise an army. He was troubled at some of the rumours about Tom, these were true of course. When Dumbledore turned down Voldemort's request, this sealed the deep resentment Voldemort would continue to feel towards him and he cursed the Defence Against the Dark Arts post out of spite.
It was clear that while many who followed Dumbledore's cause both feared and despised Voldemort greatly, Dumbledore did not share such views as he had known Tom Riddle personally, and although he was committed to defeating him, Dumbledore held no personal resentment nor fear towards the Dark Lord and continued to see him as his former student worthy of being pitied for his childhood and complete inability to understand love, as he had never received any. He even appeared to feel some deep-rooted guilt and remorse over his inability to change Riddle, as he noted with great sadness in his face and tone that he sincerely wished he could have forced Voldemort to repent for his sins in a peaceful manner. Dumbledore understood the evil in Riddle as a result of a string of unfortunate events and performed intensive research on him, eventually discovering his Horcruxes. After Riddle's transformation into Lord Voldemort, contrary to the rest of the wizarding community's fear of saying the Dark Lord's name, Dumbledore, as the only person Voldemort (secretly) feared, refused to be intimidated by the Dark Lord, referring to him as "Voldemort" to others and as "Tom" in conversation with Voldemort himself, a subtle but steadfast refusal to allow Lord Voldemort to dictate the terms of their relationship and a trait that would later be inherited by Harry Potter.
Albus Dumbledore locked in combat with Voldemort
In 1996, Dumbledore and Voldemort met face to face in the Ministry of Magic. Voldemort started a dangerous duel during which he used all of his tremendous magical capabilities in an attempt to murder Harry Potter along with his former teacher. Fortunately for Dumbledore, he proved himself to be worthy of his title as the only wizard who was ever feared by Voldemort and maintained the offensive in the battle, eventually forcing Voldemort to flee. A short while later, Dumbledore became aware of Voldemort's plan to use Draco Malfoy to kill him, possibly as Voldemort realised from their previous altercation that he would lose a duel with Dumbledore head on and thus used Dumbledore's empathy for Draco to give Draco a greater chance to kill him. Dumbledore requested to Snape that he should be the one to kill him instead of Malfoy. Despite dying to Snape in 1997, Dumbledore's legacy allowed Harry Potter to defeat Voldemort once and for all in 1998.
Patricia Rakepick
Albus Dumbledore was, at the time of Patricia Rakepick's arrival at Hogwarts, the school's Head of Transfiguration under then Headmaster Armando Dippet, until he eventually succeeded the latter in said post at some point during her magical education. Unlike all of the other staff members, Dumbledore did not let her rebellious streak, a trait for which, seen as it went beyond mere mischief-making, many of his colleagues came to distrust and dislike her for, cloud the fact that she was an exceptional student and spoke highly of her abilities even after her graduation. He welcomed her warmly back to Hogwarts upon inviting her back to the castle to help the staff in their efforts to put a stop to the threat posed to the security of the school and those who dwelled therein by the fabled Cursed Vaults, though it is unknown if he shared Severus Snape's suspicions about her ulterior motives, the latter of whom believed, quite correctly, that Dumbledore trusted her.
After Rakepick revealed herself to be a traitor working for R, Dumbledore did not seem too surprised, showing that he did suspect her but just didn't take it to extreme levels. Regardless, Dumbledore didn't seem to resent her too much for having ruthlessly tortured Merula Snyde, as although he considered it a major priority to neutralise her, Dumbledore openly suggested against Merula Snyde being too focused to kill her.
Harry Potter, his favourite student and protégé
Dumbledore was well known for the care and steadfast championing of Harry Potter. It was Dumbledore who planned and wanted the infant Harry to be taken from the cottage at Godric's Hollow where Harry's parents had been murdered, taking him away from his godfather and rightful guardian. He then left Harry in the care of Harry's Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon in Surrey, Little Whinging, placing Harry on the doorstep of their home, despite them not being named guardians in the event of James and Lily's death. Despite being aware of the criminal abuse Harry had suffered while living with the Dursley family through a contact, Arabella Figg, he did not step in to prevent the abuse Harry suffered as a child, leaving him to suffer with his magical hating Aunt and Uncle and bullying cousin Dudley. Throughout Harry's years at Hogwarts, Dumbledore provided him with protection and guidance, and supplemented Harry's schooling with additional information about Lord Voldemort.
After the Rebirth of Lord Voldemort, Dumbledore, in an effort to prevent Voldemort from learning certain details through his link to Harry, refused to disclose certain details to Harry. This caused some friction between the two. Soon after Sirius' death Dumbledore attempted to comfort and explain himself to the distraught Harry, who took his anger out by demolishing Dumbledore's office, even going so far as to consider attacking him. When Dumbledore explained to Harry that he had done so because he cared a great deal for him and wished to avoid Voldemort learning the true nature of their relationship, Harry was still angry but was more understanding.
By Harry's sixth year, Albus Dumbledore took on the role of providing Harry with additional insights into the origins of Lord Voldemort, as Voldemort's power was growing enormously stronger. He did this largely through the use of the Pensieve. He entrusted Harry with the task of getting a final, crucial memory from Horace Slughorn regarding Voldemort's knowledge of Horcruxes. When Dumbledore was killed, Harry was devastated.
Harry Potter speaking with Albus Dumbledore in Limbo
Harry and Dumbledore forged a strong Student — Headmaster bond, comparable to that between two close family members (most likely the case of a great-grandfather — grandson), in spite of the century in age difference. Harry felt comfortable enough around the impressive, intimidating figure of Dumbledore to shout at him in frustration, cry out of grief, admit to his fears, and entrust him with his life. Dumbledore in return considered Harry to be a talented and powerful wizard who had inherited his parents' best qualities, noting that Harry was a leader of superior quality to himself, as Harry led because others looked to him to lead them rather than because he had ever sought power or authority for himself. He also had great faith in Harry as shown when Dumbledore was in a weakened state and Harry, who had never Apparated beyond a few feet, had to Apparate them both back. Dumbledore told Harry that he wasn't worried because he was with Harry.
After Dumbledore's death, Harry decided to continue the impossibly difficult task Dumbledore had left him of finding and destroying each of Voldemort's Horcruxes. However Harry had difficulty coping with the fact that there was much Dumbledore had not told him, about his history with the Deathly Hallows and Gellert Grindelwald: even doubting that Dumbledore even cared about him, beginning to believe the old Headmaster simply thought of Harry as nothing more than a tool to be used. Something Harry thought was proven true when he learned during the Battle of Hogwarts that Dumbledore had supposedly planned all along for Harry to sacrifice himself.
Before the final event of the Battle of Hogwarts, after Harry sacrificed himself and was struck by Voldemort's Killing Curse and nearly died back in the Forbidden Forest, his soul went to a place resembling King's Cross Station, where Dumbledore was waiting to speak with him. The fact that Dumbledore himself was there to meet Harry in a place between life and death attests to the bond of fellowship between them, not to mention Dumbledore had been waiting nearly a year for Harry in limbo. Dumbledore proceeded to tie up the loose ends with Harry, explaining everything he withheld whilst he was alive. At one point, Dumbledore seemed to beg for Harry's reassurance, uncharacteristically doubting some of the decisions he had made in the course of his life, which Harry easily gave him. He even pleaded with Harry to forgive him for the mistakes he's made, acknowledging Harry as the better man. Though Harry had felt some resentment for how little he felt Dumbledore had actually revealed of himself in their time together, Dumbledore showed a side of himself that no one had ever seen to Harry. Afterwards, the two part ways on good terms, as Harry returned to the living world to defeat Voldemort for good, while Dumbledore went "on" to the afterlife. After the war, Harry also named his second son after his old mentor.
Rubeus Hagrid: his friend, colleague, and former student
Dumbledore displayed an innate trust of Rubeus Hagrid in every situation starting from when Hagrid attended Hogwarts. Dumbledore believed that Hagrid did not open the Chamber of Secrets and asked the former Headmaster Armando Dippet to train Hagrid as the gamekeeper so he could stay. Since that time Dumbledore has shown many examples of his faith in Hagrid. For example, Hagrid is the one tasked to protect Harry Potter as he is brought to live with the Dursleys, in addition he is asked to bring the Philosopher's Stone back from Gringotts. Dumbledore also sent Hagrid on other important missions, such as attempting to persuade the giants to join the side of the Order of the Phoenix. Dumbledore additionally was the only one who supported Hagrid's decision to bring his giant half-brother Grawp with him back to Hogwarts after his mission to recruit the giants failed, allowing Grawp to stay in the Forbidden Forest and later having him sent to the mountains near Hogsmeade. Hagrid was also devastated by Dumbledore's death in 1997. He was also right about telling Harry that Snape was on Dumbledore's side. Hagrid in return greatly admired and trusted Dumbledore and took extreme offence to anyone who dared insult the Headmaster.
Minerva McGonagall: his friend, colleague, and former student
Minerva McGonagall knew Dumbledore for the majority of her life. She attended Hogwarts as a student during Dumbledore's time as the Transfiguration Professor and later went on to replace him when he took the position of Head of the school. She served for many years as his Deputy Headmistress, standing in for him and even replacing him as standing Headmistress on several occasions.
Minerva had great faith in Dumbledore, placing great stock in the differences between him and Voldemort. However, she did not hesitate to disagree with him when she felt the need to do so. She was extremely opposed to his decision to place Harry Potter with his narrow-minded Muggle aunt and uncle, saying that "You couldn't find two people who are less like us." She also served more than once to bring Dumbledore back on track when he became distracted from the matter currently at hand.
Dumbledore discovered Minerva in tears in her classroom late one evening, after she found out about the marriage of a young love to another woman. She confessed the whole story to him and Albus Dumbledore offered both comfort and wisdom, telling Minerva some of his own family history, previously unknown to her. The confidences exchanged that night between two intensely private and reserved characters were to form the basis of a lasting mutual esteem and friendship.
Minerva had no qualms about displaying her loyalty to Dumbledore. When Cornelius Fudge brought Aurors to arrest Dumbledore in 1996, she boldly stepped forward and announced her intention to fight the Aurors on his behalf. She only stepped back at Dumbledore's insistence when he reminded her that Hogwarts and her students would need her in his absence.
Minerva was devastated when Dumbledore was killed in 1997 during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and attended his funeral. A year later, when Harry Potter returned to Hogwarts on a mission given to him by Dumbledore, she did not question the decision of her dead friend, but immediately sought to provide whatever assistance she could.
Severus Snape, a trusted ally, colleague, and former student
Snape's relationship with Dumbledore was one of close, but not indefinite trust. After indirectly and accidentally sending Voldemort after Lily, Snape turned to Dumbledore to keep her safe. Dumbledore chose to capitalise on Snape's remorse and initiated him into the Order of the Phoenix as a double agent.
As a spy for the Order, Snape silently kept his place within the ranks of the Death Eaters, while informing Dumbledore about their movements. He also adopted the role of secret agent for Voldemort and supplied him with strategic scraps of information about the Order. The content of these reports was often dictated by Dumbledore. It is implied that Snape withheld little, if any, information from Dumbledore that was relevant to the Order's success, while Snape deliberately did the opposite for Voldemort.
"I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, Severus..."
It is notable that Dumbledore did not confide completely in Snape, thereby minimising the potential damage that might occur if Snape was compromised. Snape resented Dumbledore's secrecy, and was offended by this lack of faith in his abilities. However, when Snape discovered that he had been used as a pawn in Harry's own destruction, he was horrified, seeing it as a calculated betrayal of Lily's memory.
Dumbledore clearly underestimated Snape's capacity for love, and years later was very surprised to learn that Snape still maintained his devotion. Furthermore, he complimented Snape's bravery, stating he was far braver than Igor Karkaroff and that sometimes they sorted too soon, leaving Snape dumbstruck. But in contrast to this, Dumbledore overestimated Snape's feelings to get over "old grudges" and therefore assigned him to tutor Harry in Occlumency, which ended badly between the two parties.
In 1996, Dumbledore was cursed by putting on Marvolo Gaunt's Ring, which was a Horcrux (he put it on when he was distracted by finding out that it was the Resurrection Stone, hoping to talk to his dead family). He managed to contact Severus who was able to contain the curse in his right hand. However, Snape knew and told Dumbledore that the curse would get stronger and stronger and eventually kill him painfully, giving him a prognosis of about a year. By this time, Dumbledore was aware of Voldemort's plan to kill him through assigning Draco Malfoy by threatening to kill his parents. Knowing that he was going to die in a year and to save Draco Malfoy's safety and his soul, he begged Snape to give him a quick and painless death when the time came. Snape, although resistant at first to killing Dumbledore, carried it out at the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, when Draco Malfoy had managed to bring Death Eaters into Hogwarts. Dumbledore also entrusted Snape with protecting the students once Hogwarts fell into Voldemort's control.
It is notable that despite trusting Snape had reformed, Dumbledore never allowed him his coveted position of professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts, ostensibly under the concern that it would cause him to revert to "old habits". However, it is more likely that he did it out of a desire to protect Snape from the jinx he believed Lord Voldemort had put on the job after failing to acquire the position himself. This same jinx prevented any teacher from lasting more than twelve months at the post, sometimes with fatal results. After being cursed by Marvolo Gaunt's ring and ordering Snape to kill him, Dumbledore finally granted him the Defence Against the Dark Arts post, knowing that if Snape were to kill him, he would be vilified by the wizarding public and forced to abandon the post.
Elphias Doge, his friend for many years
Elphias Doge became a close friend of Dumbledore's during their first day at Hogwarts. Elphias suffered from Dragon Pox, and everybody avoided him. Elphias thought Dumbledore was a very great wizard, and a very great person, and believed that his many early losses endowed him with great humanity and strong sympathy, as he stated in an obituary he wrote for Albus Dumbledore, after his death.
Elphias pitied Dumbledore about his father, mother, and sister, and had a highly opinion of him. Elphias soon became a member of the Order of the Phoenix, an organisation that Dumbledore had led. He also attended Albus Dumbledore's funeral.
Elphias also told Harry to never believe Rita Skeeter and Muriel's slanders about Albus Dumbledore's family life, including that Ariana was a Squib. It is possible that Elphias Doge fought in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, his former students
Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger were Harry Potter's best friends and, like Harry, they thought Dumbledore was a great wizard. Dumbledore liked them too, despite that he wasn't as close to them as he was to Harry.
After his death, he left Ron his Deluminator (a unique artefact created by Dumbledore himself) and Hermione his copy of The Tales of Beedle the Bard. These gifts were proven very useful, as Ron abandoned Harry and Hermione formerly to find his family, and, when he wanted to come back to Harry and Hermione, the Deluminator showed him the way. The trio also read the Tales of Beedle the Bard and learned about the Deathly Hallows. Harry, Ron and Hermione also visited Dumbledore's portrait, after the Battle of Hogwarts.
The Weasley family
Apart from Ron, Dumbledore was respected greatly by the rest of the Weasley family. They considered him as the greatest wizard of all time and supported him through everything (except Percy who disbelieved him about Voldemort's return) and was even the Hogwarts Headmaster during the times in which all the Weasleys attended Hogwarts.
Arthur and Molly Weasley always respected Dumbledore and were very loyal to him. Arthur, like Dumbledore, believed in the equality of all witches, wizards and Muggles while Molly considered him a great wizard who doesn't make mistakes. When the Ministry of Magic began to disbelieve Dumbledore and Harry, they supported the two famous wizards rather than the Ministry and became members of the second Order of the Phoenix.
Dumbledore's relationship with Bill happened to be a friendly one since they were both Gryffindors and liked each other. It is very likely that he also had a good relationship with Charlie.
Percy also thought of Dumbledore as a great wizard, but sometimes odd. In 1995, Percy's relationship with Dumbledore became antagonistic when he and Harry claimed that Voldemort had returned, Percy was loyal to the Ministry and participated in discrediting Harry and Dumbledore altogether. When the truth was revealed, Percy learned he had made a mistake and in 1997, attended Dumbledore's funeral.
Fred and George appeared to respect Dumbledore very much. Dumbledore also appeared to like the twins, despite their mischief-making, but knew they were good people at heart. They even joined the second Order of the Phoenix and even Dumbledore's Army.
Ginny Weasley admired Dumbledore a lot and became his student in 1992. Dumbledore comforted and reassured Ginny after she was possessed by a fragment of Voldemort's soul and manipulated into opening the Chamber of Secrets during the 1992–1993 school year. Ginny was one of the first people to learn about Dumbledore's death, and the only one able to console Harry afterwards. Ginny also named her younger son, Albus Severus Potter after Dumbledore.
James and Lily Potter, his friends and former students
Dumbledore first met James Potter and Lily Evans during their first year at Hogwarts, where he was the Headmaster. Dumbledore had a good relationship with both of them, knowing them both to be pure souls. James had lent Dumbledore his Invisibility Cloak one of the three Deathly Hallows. After James's death Dumbledore returned the cloak to James's son, Harry.
When the Potters became Voldemort's targets due to a prophecy made about their son and the Dark Lord, Dumbledore attempted to protect them by casting the Fidelius Charm and offering to be their Secret Keeper, but the role of Secret Keeper went instead to Peter Pettigrew, which turned out to be a fatal mistake, as Peter turned out to be a spy, and he betrayed Lily and James to Voldemort, who killed them. Dumbledore was very saddened by their deaths and dedicated the rest of his life to protecting their son, Harry, without giving him any happiness in his childhood. He often told Harry about the great goodness of his parents, and repeatedly consoled him with the assurance that his parents would never ever truly leave him because of their love for him. Dumbledore also believed that Harry's love for his parents was his greatest power.
The Dursleys, whom he entrusted Harry Potter to
Dumbledore had been known to have at least some correspondence with the Dursley family before the birth of their nephew. In 1971, Petunia Evans wrote a letter to Dumbledore asking if she could attend Hogwarts along with her sister. Dumbledore kindly rejected her request due to her being a Muggle, which had likely contributed to Petunia's already growing hatred of magic. Ten years later, Dumbledore illegally dropped Petunia's nephew at her doorstep shortly after the murders of her sister and brother-in-law, despite the fact they were not named guardian candidates of Harry in the events of James and Lily's death. Dumbledore had hoped that doing so would ensure an ancient form of magic that Lily's wilful loving sacrifice for her son had created. However, Petunia and her own husband both resented Harry's presence for the next ten years.
After Harry had received his letter from Rubeus Hagrid, Vernon had denounced Dumbledore as a "crackpot old fool" and refused to pay for Harry's school funds. In response to this irreverent outburst, Hagrid gave a pig's tail to Vernon's son, Dudley Dursley. In the summer of 1995, Vernon was about to throw Harry out of the house when Petunia received a Howler from Dumbledore simply stating, "Remember my last, Petunia." Less than a year later, Harry and Dumbledore were talking about why the former had to stay at the Dursley house despite his miserable existence he endured there.
A couple of months later, Dumbledore met with the Dursleys for the final time in his life. During his visit to their house, Dumbledore went over the protection that the Dursleys were affording Harry, Harry's inheritance of Sirius Black's possessions, and current updates in the wizarding world. In addition, Dumbledore chastised the Dursleys for their indulgence of their son, Dudley. Vernon and Petunia were likely indignant at Dumbledore's remarks, although Petunia, at least in Harry's eyes, responded to Dumbledore's chastisement by looking rather flustered.
Sirius Black, his friend and former student
Dumbledore had also a good relationship with Sirius Black, James Potter's best friend and Harry Potter's godfather, as well as a member of the Order of the Phoenix, an organisation that Dumbledore led to oppose Voldemort and his followers. Like the rest of the wizarding world, Dumbledore initially believed that Sirius was the one who betrayed Lily and James to Lord Voldemort (and helped to condemn him in Azkaban with unproven statements and lack of evidence about his supposed betrayal), but, in 1994, he learned that it was actually Peter Pettigrew. As he had no way to prove Sirius's innocence, despite being Chief Warlock and having the power to give him a trial, Dumbledore compensated by helping Hermione and Harry save Sirius from the Dementor's Kiss, and to escape from his Ministry captors, by means of a Time-Turner and Buckbeak.
The two resumed their friendship, and Sirius helped Dumbledore to recall the Order of the Phoenix an hour after Voldemort returned. However, their relationship was soon strained: Dumbledore forced Sirius to stay at 12 Grimmauld Place on account of his being a wanted convict, and because he had a tendency to act rashly, which could lead him to put himself in great danger. Though his intentions were noble, Sirius could not bring himself to appreciate Dumbledore's thoughtfulness, as he utterly despised the home which brought him many bitter, unhappy memories, and the fact that he was to be alone in the house most of the time made it all the more intolerable. Nevertheless, he still trusted Dumbledore enough to confide in him about how Harry felt Voldemort awaking inside him the night that Mr Weasley was attacked. Dumbledore was devastated when Sirius died, believing that it was mostly his fault and comforted Harry to the best of his ability, and expressed his belief that Sirius was a lively man of wit and courage, with a deep and genuine concern for his loved ones, and would not hesitate to come to their rescue even if it meant putting himself in danger. Sirius's death was also a factor that led to Dumbledore confessing to Harry several things that had been kept secret from him, mainly about the true power of his mother's sacrificial protection, and the prophecy about him and Voldemort.
Remus Lupin: his friend, former student, and former colleague
Another good friend of Dumbledore was Remus Lupin, one of James's and Sirius's dearest friends, and a werewolf. It was Dumbledore who, by several special precautions, ensured that Remus was able to come to Hogwarts to receive a proper magical education despite his werewolf status. He became a member of the Order of the Phoenix after his graduation. Later on, in 1993, Dumbledore gave him the post of teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts, a decision some considered questionable. He even helped Remus control his werewolf-side by having Snape brew the Wolfsbane Potion for him on a regular basis. On his part, Remus confessed that Dumbledore's trust and exceptional kindness towards him meant everything to him, given that the vast majority of the wizarding world shunned him because of the deep prejudice towards werewolves, and Remus felt guilty for betraying this kindness by allowing his three Marauder friends illegally become Animagi and roaming wild during their schooling years. Despite this, after learning of Sirius's innocence, Dumbledore forgave Remus for his supposed betrayal, understanding his Marauder friends only became Animagi to help Remus in his werewolf form and considered it an extraordinary achievement. He re-joined the Order of the Phoenix when Dumbledore reinstated it in 1995, and they both fought in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, where Remus suffered a devastating loss: Sirius died in the hands of Bellatrix Lestrange. Later on, upon overhearing a conversation about Harry's misgivings of Snape, he told Harry that to doubt Snape would be to doubt Dumbledore. In 1997, Remus was devastated by Dumbledore's death after the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, and later demonstrated his faith and loyalty to Dumbledore by fighting in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Alastor Moody, his friend
Alastor Moody was a prominent Auror and Dumbledore's close friend. They fought together in many battles, and the intimacy of their friendship can be demonstrated by an instance where the usually formidable, no-nonsense Moody actually teased Dumbledore for his hatred of the Dementors. In 1994, Moody accepted Dumbledore's offer to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts, but was captured and imprisoned by Barty Crouch Jnr, who impersonated him during the 1994-1995 school year, in order to send Harry Potter to Lord Voldemort.
Dumbledore and Moody fought along in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, where they suffered a devastating loss: Sirius, one of their dear friends, was killed by Bellatrix Lestrange. Moody turned out to be the next member of the Order to die after Dumbledore.
Fawkes, his loyal pet Phoenix
Albus Dumbledore had a very strong bond with Fawkes, his pet phoenix, who served as a messenger and close companion. Dumbledore always looked after Fawkes when he was reborn after his countless deaths and in return Fawkes was extremely loyal to him. Fawkes was willing to take a Killing Curse in order to protect Dumbledore and did so in order to defend him from Lord Voldemort. He also helped Albus escape from several members of the Ministry of Magic when they tried to arrest him. When Dumbledore died Fawkes mourned him by singing a lament and then left Hogwarts and was apparently never seen again.
The original Order of the Phoenix, his allies
The Order of the Phoenix was an organisation Dumbledore formed to oppose Voldemort and his forces. He had good relationships with most of the members, such as his brother Aberforth, Elphias Doge, Minerva McGonagall, Rubeus Hagrid, Severus Snape, James and Lily Potter, Sirius Black, Remus Lupin, and Alastor Moody.
Dumbledore with Snape
He was also friends with Kingsley Shacklebolt, who believed in equality and fairness for all wizards and witches and Muggles; Arabella Figg, whom he trusted to watch Harry Potter during his years at the Dursleys' house (and heard about the abuse Harry suffered while doing nothing); Nymphadora Tonks, an Auror; Dedalus Diggle; Hestia Jones; Emmeline Vance; Sturgis Podmore; Mundungus Fletcher; and the Weasley family. Emmeline Vance was killed by Death Eaters during the Second Wizarding War.
Other possible Dumbledore's friends who were killed or seriously injured during the First Wizarding War were Edgar Bones, Caradoc Dearborn, Benjy Fenwick, Marlene McKinnon, Dorcas Meadowes, and Fabian and Gideon Prewett, and Alice and Frank Longbottom, who were tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange and Barty Crouch Jnr
Dumbledore was also friend of many allies of the Order, including Olympe Maxime, the headmistress of Beauxbatons Academy of Magic, whom he met during the Triwizard Tournament, his co-workers Filius Flitwick, Pomona Sprout and Horace Slughorn, Augusta Longbottom, Ted and Andromeda Tonks. Other allies of the Order were Dumbledore's students, Ginny Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood, Lee Jordan, and Percy Weasley. He also liked the house-elf Dobby, and pitied the house-elf Kreacher, asking them to work at Hogwarts kitchens.
It is possible that all the members and allies of the Order who were neither killed nor imprisoned, fought in the Battle of Hogwarts (except Arabella Figg, who was a Squib, and couldn't fight. However, she might have helped in another way.)
Dumbledore in-between Professors McGonagall and Sinistra
Except the already mentioned Minerva McGonagall, Rubeus Hagrid, Severus Snape, Remus Lupin, and Alastor Moody, Dumbledore had many co-workers during his career at Hogwarts. Some of his earliest co-workers were: Armando Dippet, the previous Headmaster, Dumbledore being notably among the very few Dippet trusted apparently due to his teaching efficiency; Herbert Beery, the Herbology Professor, who later resigned his teaching post at Hogwarts to go teaching at the Wizarding Academy of Dramatic Arts, who Dumbledore was apparently on good terms with as despite Herbert being such an enthusiast, he trusted Dumbledore enough to confide in him the personal fact that his first act made all his other performances ruined; Galatea Merrythought, the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor, who retired before Dippet's death; Silvanus Kettleburn, the Care of Magical Creatures Professor; and Horace Slughorn, the Potions master, who was hired twice, and gave Harry Potter his memory, helping him and Dumbledore find and destroy Voldemort's Horcruxes.
After Dippet's death, he became the new Hogwarts headmaster. He also had a friendship with Filius Flitwick, the Charms Professor and Head of Ravenclaw House, Pomona Sprout, the Herbology Professor and Head of Hufflepuff House, and Poppy Pomfrey, the nurse.
Every Hogwarts staff member, with the exception of Dolores Umbridge, both respected and held a high opinion of Dumbledore. Other staff were Argus Filch, the caretaker; Wilhelmina Grubbly-Plank, the Care of Magical Creatures Substitute Professor; Firenze, a centaur and the Divination Professor; Rolanda Hooch, the Flying Instructor; Aurora Sinistra, the Astronomy Professor; Bathsheda Babbling, the Study of Ancient Runes Professor; Septima Vector, the Arithmancy Professor; Irma Pince, the librarian; Cuthbert Binns, a ghost and the History of Magic Professor; Charity Burbage the Muggle Studies Professor.
Dumbledore also knew Gilderoy Lockhart, the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor (1992-1993), when he was still a student. It's unknown how Dumbledore viewed him, but he apparently found Lockhart's antics to be amusing instead of irritating unlike many of the other professors, as he kindly denied Lockhart's proposal of starting a school newspaper rather than punishing him as many, if not all, of the other staff members have been known to do out of dislike of Lockhart's vanity seeking. Due to his optimistic personality and tendency to see the good in people in order to try to give them another chance, it can be assumed that he may have once thought that Lockhart can overcome his love for vanity and become a great wizard due to his talents. However, when Lockhart erased the memories of two wizards that Dumbledore knew, Dumbledore, having never been fooled by Lockhart's tall tales, easily found out the truth and immediately decided to appoint him as a Hogwarts professor to expose Lockhart's fraudulence, and because Lockhart at the time was the only person willing to apply for the cursed Defence against the Dark Arts post. While he apparently disliked Lockhart's deeds, he nevertheless did not seem to truly hate Lockhart, as he was cordial and polite to him whenever they interacted and after the Memory Charm completely wiped out Lockhart's memories, Dumbledore was compassionate enough that he decided to leave Lockhart in peace and did not expose his crimes, likely as he pitied Lockhart and saw that having completely lost all of his popularity and with the remnants of his magical brilliance now lost to him and his cunning now harmless, to condemn him to being eternally despised by the wizarding community would be unnecessarily cruel, not to say that if he did reveal what Lockhart had did, he would likely be either sentenced to Azkaban or heavily secured in St Mungo, both fates that he seemingly deemed too cruel of a punishment for what Lockhart did.
Another Professor was Sybill Trelawney, who taught Divination. Dumbledore planned on discontinuing Divination but went to her job interview out of politeness, by the end of the interview however, he has summed her up as a fraud. When he heard her conceiving Sybill Trelawney's first prophecy, he hired Trelawney to protect her from the Death Eaters. In 1995, when Dolores Umbridge sacked Trelawney and tried to banish her from Hogwarts, it was Dumbledore who stepped in and told Umbridge he wished that Trelawney would remain at Hogwarts.
Quirinus Quirrell was the Muggle Studies Professor, before he started to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts. It was unknown of Dumbledore's feelings towards him at the time, but he likely saw Quirrell as being a gifted wizard from his academical performances during his time as a student, considering that he had been the Headmaster by the time Quirrell came to Hogwarts and appointed him in first Muggle Studies before having him teach Defence Against the Dark Arts. It was unknown how he felt about Quirrell's frailty or if he knew of Quirrell's bitterness over his bullying, making him desire to be noticed, but it was likely that although he was concerned about it, ever the optimist, he had hoped that Quirrell could overcome this with time. However, when Quirrell met Voldemort when he travelled around the world, and shared his body with him and since then, he served him faithfully, trying to steal the Philosopher's Stone and kill Harry Potter, Dumbledore quickly saw through Quirrell and after he was killed by Harry Potter in 1992, being burned by Harry's touching, Dumbledore openly noted that Quirrell's fate was well-deserved, noting on how Quirrell's hunger for power, hatred and ambitions made him allow Voldemort to possess him and incapable of understanding love, fell victim to it, showing his disgust at his former professor.
In 1995, Dolores Umbridge was appointed the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor by the Ministry of Magic. She was a sadistic woman who enjoyed punishing students. Umbridge became High Inquisitor of Hogwarts, and later Headmistress. At the end of the year, she was chased by centaurs, and left Hogwarts.
Every member of the Hogwarts staff was devastated by Dumbledore's death, and it is more than likely that every member fought in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Some members of Dumbledore's Army
Dumbledore's Army was an organisation formed and led by Harry Potter, in order to protect the students of Hogwarts from Lord Voldemort.
Its members were Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, Ginny Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood, Fred and George Weasley, Cho Chang, Dean Thomas, Seamus Finnigan, Parvati and Padma Patil, Lavender Brown, Hannah Abbott, Ernie Macmillan, Susan Bones, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Michael Corner, Terry Boot, Anthony Goldstein, Katie Bell, Alicia Spinnet, Angelina Johnson, Colin and Dennis Creevey, Zacharias Smith and Marietta Edgecombe.
All of the members of Dumbledore's Army were devastated by Dumbledore's death, and it is possible that all of them fought in the Battle of Hogwarts. Three of the members were killed: Fred Weasley, Lavender Brown and Colin Creevey. The two defectors, Marietta Edgecombe and Zacharias Smith, are the ones who did not believe in Dumbledore from the beginning and did not participate in the final battle.
During his life, Dumbledore became friend of many famous wizards and witches, such as Nicolas Flamel and his wife, Perenelle, Bathilda Bagshot and Griselda Marchbanks. Nicolas Flamel and Perenelle were over 650 years of age, when they agreed to destroy the Philosopher's Stone to thwart Lord Voldemort's return. Bathilda Bagshot died a few months after Dumbledore, being killed by Voldemort.
Bellatrix Lestrange, his former student
Bellatrix Lestrange was a Death Eater who fought in both Wizarding Wars. She was fanatically loyal to Lord Voldemort who was her only true love and so, although reluctantly acknowledging Dumbledore as a very powerful wizard, considered her master as the superior wizard. Bellatrix was among the few people who knew of the plan to assassinate Dumbledore, and that Draco Malfoy had been assigned the task of murdering him. Bellatrix did not live to discover that her initial suspicions of Snape's loyalty had been correct, dying during a ferocious duel with Molly Weasley. Dumbledore recognised Bellatrix as an incredibly dangerous and sadistic Death Eater, commenting to Severus Snape that, given the choice, he would prefer to die a quick and clean death rather than fall prey to Bellatrix who tended to "play with her food". Bellatrix also killed many of Dumbledore's friends, such as Sirius Black, Dobby the house-elf, and Nymphadora Tonks.
Lucius Malfoy, his former student
Lucius Malfoy was a prefect during Dumbledore's early years as Hogwarts Headmaster, and was among the Death Eaters who avoided Azkaban after First Wizarding War. In 1991, Lucius's son, Draco, started attending Hogwarts. The Malfoys had a strong dislike of Dumbledore due to his love and acceptance of Muggle-borns and belief in Muggle rights. In 1992, Lucius manipulated Ginny Weasley into reopening the Chamber of Secrets by giving her Tom Riddle's Diary in order to stigmatise her father Arthur and kick Dumbledore out of Hogwarts. This failed because Dumbledore was able to guess the truth, when Harry Potter saved Ginny from the Basilisk. Dumbledore thus let Harry decide Lucius's punishment, which was giving the Malfoy house-elf Dobby his freedom as a reward and let Lucius himself get stripped from his position on the Hogwarts Board of Governors. In 1996, Dumbledore and Lucius fought in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. Lucius was stunned and imprisoned in Azkaban, failing to give Voldemort the Prophecy about the Chosen one, so Voldemort became angry and made Draco a Death Eater and ordered him to kill Dumbledore, otherwise he would kill his family. During a discussion about Horcruxes, Dumbledore expressed to Harry a certain sympathy to Lucius, as he believed that Lucius was secretly glad to be imprisoned for accidentally getting rid of his master's Horcrux diary and the debacle of the prophecy retrieval. Draco attempted to kill Dumbledore, on Voldemort's orders, telling him that the Dark Lord would kill him, if he didn't do so. Dumbledore showed kindness and sympathy to Draco's plight, sensing he wasn't capable of murder and suggested him to abandon Voldemort, and that he and his mother would be hidden by the Order of the Phoenix. Draco would most likely have accepted but was interrupted by Death Eaters. A year later, the Malfoy family changed sides.
Peter Pettigrew, his former student
Peter Pettigrew was a member of the Order of the Phoenix and another close friend of James Potter. It is possible that he was a friend of Dumbledore. However, in 1981, Pettigrew betrayed James and Lily to Voldemort in his role as their family Secret-Keeper and faked his own death by cutting off his finger in a crowded London street which he blew up with the Blasting Curse in order to frame Sirius Black. Like the rest of the wizarding world, Dumbledore initially believed that it was Sirius who was behind the Potters' betrayal, and that Pettigrew died confronting him about their deaths. He learned the truth in 1994, when Harry Potter saved Pettigrew's life from Sirius's and Remus Lupin's attempt to extinguish it for his crime. After Harry saved Sirius from the Dementors, Dumbledore congratulated him by saying that as long as Pettigrew was a Death Eater in a life-debt with the last Potter, he would requite. Dumbledore's observation was proven true: Pettigrew attempted to strangle Harry during the Skirmish at Malfoy Manor, but he hesitated when Harry reminded him of the debt, causing the silver hand that was given to him by Voldemort to strangle and kill him.
Igor Karkaroff
Igor Karkaroff was a Death Eater in the First Wizarding War. Dumbledore participated in his trial and saw him betraying many Death Eaters to avoid imprisonment in Azkaban. After his release, he abandoned Voldemort and became the Headmaster of Durmstrang Institute. He met Dumbledore in 1994, when he visited Hogwarts during the Triwizard Tournament. At first, the two headmasters greeted each other as old friends, seemingly showing no animosity. However, Karkaroff would later denounce Dumbledore as a fraud who put Harry Potter's name in the Goblet of Fire and was even more angry to learn about Barty Crouch Snr's attack on Durmstrang champion Viktor Krum, suggesting that the British Ministry of Magic was tainted with corruption. He left Hogwarts after Voldemort's rebirth, and was killed by Death Eaters in either 1995 or 1996. Despite public appearances, Dumbledore thought Karkaroff was a coward.
Barty Crouch Jnr, his former student
Another very loyal Death Eater was Barty Crouch Jnr, who was imprisoned in Azkaban by his father, but escaped with the help of his mother. Crouch played a key-role in Voldemort's rebirth, after he captured and imprisoned Alastor Moody, and took his form, to teach at Hogwarts, while Dumbledore thought he was dead. Crouch put Harry's name in the Goblet of Fire and helped him with the tasks of the Triwizard Tournament, sending him to Voldemort. When Harry escaped, Crouch attempted to kill him, but was stopped by Dumbledore. Barty Crouch was given the Dementor's Kiss in 1995. Dumbledore showed cold fury and disgust at Crouch Jnr's actions but was still disappointed and revolted when Cornelius Fudge sentenced him to Dementor's Kiss as it both meant that Voldemort's return could no longer be testified and that the Crouch family blood line had permanently ended. This showed that despite his disgust of Crouch Jnr's actions, he still had some pity for what Crouch Jnr had become.
Fenrir Greyback
Fenrir Greyback was a savage werewolf who seemed to have had dealings with Dumbledore in the past, as Dumbledore was shocked that he, of all people, had come to Hogwarts the night that the Death Eaters entered the Astronomy Tower. He was also disgusted that Greyback had started to attack outside the full moon and enjoyed the taste of human flesh. Greyback offered to 'do Dumbledore for afters', indicating that he would, possibly, maul him to death after attacking children within the castle. In fact, Dumbledore seemed somewhat disappointed when he incorrectly believed that Draco would invite Greyback into the castle.
It is likely that Dumbledore knew and fought other Death Eaters during the Wars and attended their trials if caught. It is certain that the Death Eaters both hated and yet feared Dumbledore.
Dumbledore's given names could be interpreted as representing the four primary divisions of the British Isles:
Richard Harris as Albus Dumbledore
Michael Gambon as Albus Dumbledore
Dumbledore as he appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Albus Dumbledore as he appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Albus Dumbledore in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Albus Dumbledore in the console versions of the Philosopher's Stone video game
Dumbledore as a LEGO minifigure (Richard Harris)
Dumbledore as a LEGO minifigure (Michael Gambon)
Dumbledore (with Fawkes) as a LEGO mini-figure (2020 edition)
Albus Dumbledore as a POP! Vinyl (1st edition)
Albus Dumbledore as a POP! Vinyl (2nd edition)
Albus Dumbledore as a POP! Vinyl (3rd edition)
Albus Dumbledore as seen in Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells
Category for all individuals listed in the Harry Potter universe and Wizarding world created by J. K. Rowling.
All items (29)
"Point me!"
Pottermore's logo 2016-2022 (former wizarding world website)
Pottermore's original logo 2011-2016
Pottermore was an official Harry Potter website created by J. K. Rowling.
It started in April 2012 as a joint venture by Rowling and Sony. It began with interactive features such as games and let the user follow each chapter of Harry Potter from the Philosopher's Stone to the ending of the Deathly Hallows. It placed users in their Hogwarts house and gave them a wand.
In 2016, Pottermore was remade and relaunched in the style of a blog. Focusing mainly on new writing from Rowling, news and special feature articles, it allows the user to make a more private profile where they are sorted in both their Hogwarts and Ilvermorny house. Pottermore also gives them a wand and tells them what Patronus they would have.
Since it began, Pottermore has posted some of Rowling's extensive collection of work with over 18,000 words. Pottermore also has a shop where eBook editions of the books were available for purchase for the first time. They have also created Pottermore Presents which has both new information and archived information that were taken down in the relaunch.
Before it opened, one million people received a chance to preview the site before its general launch in early April 2012. It was opened for the public on 14 April 2012. Pottermore was available to the general public for free up until it was rebranded in 2019 as Wizarding World.
Pottermore teaser page, 17 June 2011
As a teaser for what was then a mystery announcement, a challenge was set up on 15 June 2011. Fans had to use coordinates revealed among ten Harry Potter fan sites to piece together a word that would be the subject of her announcement.
When the letters (E-T-O-T-O-P-E-R-R-M) were revealed, Pottermore.com was launched with a "coming soon" message and Rowling's signature. An official Twitter account was also created. By the next day, a new YouTube account titled,  was revealed to show a countdown which noted that the official unveiling of Pottermore's nature would be on 23 June 2011.
Initially, fans were only told that Pottermore was not another book. A representative of Rowling told The Guardian on 16 June 2011, "All we can say is that Pottermore is the name of J.K. Rowling's new project. It will be announced soon, and it is not a new book." Many fans guessed it was either an online game, a new fan site, or a digital encyclopedia. All three of those guesses were correct.
Some fan sites reportedly had access to a sneak preview of Pottermore and, while jokingly added that they had made "an unbreakable vow concerning its secrecy," they reported it is "breathtaking in scope, detail, and sheer beauty" and "perfect."
J.K. Rowling Announces Pottermore
J.K. Rowling announces Pottermore
On 23 June, J. K. Rowling made an announcement via her YouTube account to inform fans of the nature of the website: "Pottermore will be the place where fans of any age can share, participate in, and rediscover the stories. It will also be the exclusive place to purchase digital audio books and, for the first time, e-books of the Harry Potter series."
Rowling also said that Pottermore would be open for everyone from October, 2011, though this opening date was later delayed. It was later announced that Pottermore would be open for everyone in early April, 2012. On 1 April, 2012 a sneak peek video was shown on Pottermore's homepage and Youtube.
From 31 July and 6 August 2011, Pottermore held the Magical Quill Challenge. For seven days, fans had to try and to solve a new clue every day on the main site and then type it on the end of another URL. They then had to find the correct quill on the page which would give them early access to Pottermore.
On 8 August, everyone who were already given early access were unable to login to Pottermore. Even anyone who had been logged in previously and selected 'keep me logged in' were logged out. On 10 August, users began receiving emails confirming that they have been selected for early entry for Pottermore. The activation time was mid-August until late September.
On 15 August, everyone was able to login to Pottermore was again and the beta period began for users who had received their welcome emails that day.
On 26 August for 5 hours, Wizard Duelling was available.
On 28 September, the site was unavailable because it was being updated, and the Pottermore Insider revealed that all the one million beta-tester welcome emails had finally been sent out.
On 5 November, the site was still in beta mode, and while everyone with early access were able to log in, registration was closed and usernames and passwords were limited.
On 13 December, Wizard Duelling was once again available.
Between 31 July and 6 August, there was a Magical Quill challenge, a competition in which fans had to solve a clue revealed on the main site, add the answer to the end of a special web address, and then locate the Quill on the site they are taken to.
When they located the Quill, fans were taken to a registration page for Pottermore. Approximately 1 million fans were given access through this promotion (about 143,000 a day). When each day's quota was filled, the clue was removed and replaced with a message indicating that registration had closed.
Anyone who managed to find the Magical Quill and register received an email with a validation link that they must have followed within 48 hours. Upon clicking the validation link, they became eligible for early access to Pottermore.
They then eventually received a welcome email that allowed them to access Pottermore. Pottermore sent them across a period of several weeks as interest was high.
When all the early entry places were filled, the Magic Quill links were withdrawn. Fans still could join the email list on the homepage, but could not fully register or enter until Pottermore opened to all in April 2012.
Pottermore gave the challenge the tag-line "7 books, 7 days, 7 chances". Each day's clue corresponded to a different book (e.g. day 1's clue relates to book 1, day 2's clue relates to book 2,and so on). The first three clues were more difficult than the last four.
On day one, the clue was based on Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and unveiled 31 July at 9:00 am London time. The clue asked How many breeds of owls were featured on the Eeylops Owl Emporium sign? Multiply this number by 49. The answer is 245, as there are 5 owl breeds.
Typing in the correct URL would redirect you to Sony USA's website where a maroon screen read 'Your journey begins here'. When clicked on, the screen filled with floating feathers but only one was the Magic Quill. It had an aura of luminous blue around it, and clicking on it would take you to the registration site.
On the second day, the clue based on Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets that unveiled 1 August at 10:00 am London time, was: What is the number of the chapter in which Professor McGonagall cancels the Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Hufflepuff? Multiply this number by 42. The answer is 588, as this happens in Chapter 14.
Typing in the correct URL would redirect you to the Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 photo gallery on the official Warner Bros. website. In the gallery a photo of the Magic Quill on a pink background was added. Clicking it would redirect you to the Pottermore registration page.
On the third day, the clue based on Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban and unveiled 2 August at 11:00 am London time, was: In the Gryffindor versus Slytherin Quidditch match, in Harry's third year, how many points was Gryffindor leading by before Harry catches the Golden Snitch? Multiply this number by 35. The answer is 2100, as they led by 60 points.
Typing in the correct URL would redirect you to guardian.co.uk, where the page has the article of Pottermore. Usually where the calendar is, the Magic Quill box filled its space. You had to move your mouse quickly from side to side to levitate the quill. After levitating the Magic Quill a "Congratulations" message would appear, and the ad box would slowly load a "Now begin your journey" link. Clicking the link redirected you to the Pottermore registration page.
On the fourth day, the clue based on Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and unveiled 3 August at 3:30 pm London time, was: How many students take part in the Triwizard Tournament during Harry's fourth year? Multiply this number by 28. The answer is 112, as 4 students took part in the Triwizard Tournament in 1994.
Typing in the correct URL would redirect you right to the "Congratulations! You have found The Magical Quill" page on pottermore.com where you can register. Initially, the answer redirected to Sony's page selling Sony Blu-Ray players, Sony PlayStation 3s, and Harry Potter Merchandise, but there was no magical quill. This issue went on for two minutes until it was resolved by redirecting the URL to the registration page, skipping the search for the quill entirely.
On the fifth day, the clue based on Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and unveiled 4 August at 6:00 pm London time, was: What is the house number of the Headquarters for The Order of the Phoenix in Grimmauld Place? Multiply this number by 21. The answer is 252, as the Headquarters was number 12, Grimmauld Place.
Typing in the correct URL would redirect you to Scholastic's Harry Potter page. At the top, there was a banner ad for Pottermore. Floating feathers appeared, and the magical quill had an aura of luminous blue around it. Clicking the Magic Quill would give you a "Congratulations" message, and the ad box would slowly load a "Now begin your journey" link. Clicking the link redirected you to the Pottermore registration page.
On the sixth day, based on Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and unveiled 5 August at 2:00 pm London time, was: How many chapters are there in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince? Multiply this number by 14. The answer is 420, as there are 30 chapters.
Typing in the correct URL would redirect you to Universal's Wizarding World of Harry Potter. On the homepage (after the intro) there was the Magic Quill with an aura of luminous blue around it. Clicking the Magic Quill would give you a "Congratulations" message, and the ad box would load a "Now begin your journey" link. Clicking the link redirected you to the Pottermore registration page.
The seventh and final riddle, based on Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows and unveiled 6 August at 1 am London time, was: How many Deathly Hallows are there? Multiply this number by 7. The answer is 21, as there are 3 Deathly Hallows.
Typing in the correct URL would redirect you to Warner Brothers' Parseltongue Translator. On the homepage (after the intro), users had to select the Magic Quill from a selection of quills in an ad space. Clicking the Magic Quill would give you a "Congratulations" message, and the ad box would load a "Now begin your journey" link. Clicking the link redirected you to the Pottermore registration page.
The Pottermore Shop, featuring eBooks and digital audiobooks, opened 27 March, 2012, based on the first priority of "opening Pottermore to as many people as possible and making the experience as good as it can be."
Originally it was announced that general registration would be opened to the public sometime around the end of October. On October 28, 2011, an announcement was made that the beta period was to be extended "so that we can make Pottermore the best experience it can be before it opens to everyone."
No new date for general registration was announced for several months, only that "...we will open registration as soon as we can." However, on 8 March 2012, a release date of early April was announced, as well as an announcement that the site would be moving to "an entirely different platform setup" as an explanation of the extended beta period.
On 14 April 2012, Pottermore ended the Beta period and was opened to everyone for sign up. All pages, however, still displayed a "beta" link which all registered members could use to report problems they were experiencing with the site, up until the release of the final chapters of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban on 31 July, 2013, which was accompanied by a major redesign of the site.
In April of 2014, approximately two years after the site's official release, Sony cancelled their partnership with Pottermore, leaving the site and related media to run as an independent venture.
On 14 April, 2015, Pottermore announced they were entering a "new phase of development". They had decided that some features were "no longer properly serving the interests of our users" and were discontinued. The Pottermore Insider, the uploading of fan art, updating your status and the commenting section were deleted.
On 28 April, 2015, Pottermore released an updated set of Terms & Conditions, Privacy & Cookie Policy and Child Privacy & Safety Policy intended to make all policies clearer. They took effect on 13 May, 2015.
On 22 September, 2015, Pottermore was given a major redesign. Interactive features such as duelling, making potions and moments were deleted. They also elimated the need of a user account to access content, giving a more open exploration of content from the books and Rowling's writings.
However, they eventually brought back popular features that would need an account such as the Sorting Ceremony and obtaining a wand, as well as eventually adding a feature to learn one's Patronus.
On 28 January, 2016, the Sorting Hat was brought back, along with the wand ceremony. On 28 June, 2016, a Sorting ceremony for Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry was added in anticipation of the Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them film release.
On 22 September, 2016, the site unveiled a long-awaited feature - the ability for registered members to determine their Patronus Charm. This takes the form of a quiz of several questions, after which the member's patronus is revealed and added to their personal profile on the site. The quiz, which can only be taken once, is accompanied by graphics and sound and features a wide range of possible patronus animals.
In May 2017, Pottermore announced they would be holding the Wizarding World Book Club, starting in June, to celebrate twenty years since the publication of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. They aim to read a Harry Potter book each month and invite people to debate each book with them online, with a new theme for the topic each week.
On 12 March 2018, Pottermore unveiled a new look which incorporated the new Wizarding World logo.
Before the relaunch, the Pottermore Insider was the only thing available to every visitor besides the shop. They provided updates and news related to Pottermore such as technical issues and promotional material and featured a behind-the-scenes look inside the making of Pottermore. The Insider was discontinued on 14 April, 2015.
When Pottermore relaunched in 2016, the Insider returned as the Pottermore Correspondent. The Pottermore Correspondent is now in the style of a blog. They post the latest news about anything in the Harry Potter world. They cover special events and interviews and create fun feature articles.
The Pottermore Shop is one of the features of Pottermore. It was launched in US and Great British English on 27 March 2012. The Pottermore Shop launched soon after in French, Italian, German and Italian languages on 24 April 2012. In August 2013, it launched in Danish, Dutch, Polish, Portuguese, and Brazilian Portuguese, and Swedish.
The Pottermore Shop is the only place where Harry Potter eBook and digital audio books are available to purchase. As such, Pottermore has established certain prices:
While purchasing all seven volumes (e-books) there is a discount (-10%), and final price is £38.64 ($57.54).
In October 2015, Enhanced Editions of the 7 books were published exclusively on iBooks by Pottermore. Enhanced editions are said to include the full original text plus illustrations, animations and interactions as well as annotations written by J.K. Rowling to give you interesting insights into the world of Harry Potter.
All seven volumes - £167.34 ($242.94) with the 10% discount if bought at once.
Old home page at Pottermore Shop
Pottermore Shop eBooks are provided in EPUB format - the world's most popular and open eBook standard - and are compatible with the vast majority of computers and devices. In addition, the Harry Potter eBooks are available in Amazon Kindle formats for use by Amazon Kindle devices and apps.
EBooks and digital audio books can be bought from any country in the world. Certain editions are not available for sale in some countries, but there are always editions available to buy for oneself or as instant gifts in every country. Pottermore accept MasterCard, Visa, Carte Bleue, JCB (£ GBP at present), Maestro and Solo credit and debit cards at the Pottermore Shop. It does not accept cheque or any other kind of payment at this time, although there will be added additional payment options in the future.
At present users can use £ GBP, € EUR and $ USD to buy eBooks and digital audio books from the Pottermore Shop.
In the old Pottermore, users could move through the chapters and "follow" Harry Potter as well as collect items such as potion ingredients, books and Galleons, many of which earned house points once they are sorted. Among other things, users were able to visit Diagon Alley, learn spells, duel other users and brew potions. Students from different houses competed with each other for the House Cup by gaining house points mainly through duelling and potion-making. Since the public launch of Pottermore, the House Cup has been awarded four times.
"Harry is delivered" - one of the Moments on Pottermore
Users of Pottermore could get through the chapters of each Harry Potter volume and explore its content. Every chapter is divided into Moments in which a user could find new characters, objects, creatures and places or, if there was such a possibility, read new information from J. K. Rowling. The user could move through the Moments by using the Story Navigator. There was also a short quote from the book depicting a main event that the Moment contained.
Upon the public launch, only the first book, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was ready to explore for users. Starting with Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, the books were released in batches of chapters. The first instalment of Chamber of Secrets was launched in July 2012, concluding with the third instalment, released at the end of October that year. The release of Prisoner of Azkaban was also scattered, with instalment releases in December 2012 and April and July 2013, respectively. As of May 2015, Philosopher's Stone to Half-Blood Prince were all released in full, and Deathly Hallows was said to be "coming shortly". Material from Deathly Hallows was released in full on 23 June, 2015.
On 25 January, 2014, the creative director of Pottermore, Tom Hodgson, appeared at the "A Celebration of Harry Potter" convention in Orlando, displaying an audio clip recorded by J. K. Rowling in which she gave "a mischievous and somewhat unexpected back-story to one of her most colourful Harry Potter characters", and revealed artwork from the next selection of chapters from Goblet of Fire.
On 25 June, 2014, it was announced via the Pottermore Insider that the final instalment of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, consisting of chapters twenty-one to thirty-seven, would be made available shortly after the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, with Ravenclaws having twenty-four hours' early access due to having won the fifth House Cup. The early access began on 30 July, 2014, whilst other houses were able to explore the new moments on 31 July, 2014, Harry Potter's (and the author's) birthday; this was announced on 28 July, 2014.
Making potions on Pottermore
Pottermore gave users an opportunity to make their own potions in three different cauldrons (although only one could be used at a time) made of pewter, brass and copper, each making potions of increasing speed, with pewter the slowest and copper the fastest. Pewter cauldrons cost 15 Galleons, brass cauldrons cost 21 Galleons and copper cauldrons cost 25 Galleons. With ingredients bought in Diagon Alley, users could make six different potions, each of which rewarded house points if completed, or did not if the potion failed. The potion could fail if the user added the wrong amount of an ingredient, left it to brew for too long, didn't keep the temperature within the range, crushed ingredients too finely or not finely enough, or caused the cauldron to explode.
The potions that can be made by users could be found in the following potion books (bought with in-game money):
Users of Pottermore were allowed to practise spells and later use them against other members in Wizard Duelling. The available spells could be found in the following spellbooks (bought with in-game money or found in Moments):
Duelling Club
Pottermore gave users an opportunity to purchase a wand in Diagon Alley, hence each member of Pottermore had the ability to duel with other users. Each user chose a spell to use against his or her opponent, and the winner is determined based on the rating of the spell casting. Users can practise against members belonging to the same House as themselves, but can only challenge members of other houses. The winner receives five points for the house, while the loser receives zero points.
House points as of 30/9/12 with Slytherin in the lead (36,075,478 points)
The House Cup was awarded every few months from July 2012 until September 2015. By duelling, making potions and finding things in moments, you could win points for your house. You could even lose points by failing to brew a potion properly.
The House Cup had a page where a banner was given to each house. The winners were given a special prize.
5 July, 2012 results
The inaugural Pottermore House Cup was awarded on Thursday, 5th July, 2012, to Slytherin.
For winning, Slytherin was rewarded with a secret bonus - the ability to explore the first few Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets chapters on the site 24 hours ahead of the other houses users. Only students already in Slytherin at the time the House Cup were awarded received this bonus, a ruling likely added as a precaution against users attempting to register a new Slytherin account in order to gain access to the bonus. The Slytherins got to start exploring the first four chapters of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets on 10th of July, 2012. Gryffindors, Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs were able to start exploring it on 11th of July, 2012.
21 November, 2012 results
The second Pottermore House Cup was awarded on Wednesday, 21st November, 2012, to Gryffindor.
For winning, Gryffindor were able to download beautiful artwork of their common room as wallpapers and screensaver for their electronic devices.
25 April, 2013 results
The third Pottermore House Cup was awarded on Thursday, 25th April, 2013, to Slytherin.
For winning, Slytherin were given a Pottermore Badge that would only later be collectible on Pottermore.com.
12 September, 2013 results
The fourth Pottermore House Cup was awarded on Thursday, 12th September, 2013, to Hufflepuff.
Hufflepuff house received 24 hours early access to the first instalment of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Hufflepuffs received a Pottermore.com Owl Notification to let them know when the early access would begin.
30 March, 2014 results
The fifth Pottermore House Cup was awarded on Sunday, 30th March, 2014, to Ravenclaw.
Ravenclaw downloadable art
Ravenclaw received twenty-four hours early access to the final instalment of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire on 30 July, 2014 and downloadable house art in addition to their early access.
26 September, 2014 results
The sixth Pottermore House Cup was awarded on Friday, 26th September, 2014 to Ravenclaw.
The seventh Pottermore House Cup was awarded on Friday, 22 May, 2015. The standings were thus:
As a prize for Slytherin winning the Cup, an image was produced entitled "Famous Slytherins Through the Ages".
9 September, 2015 results
The eighth and final Pottermore House Cup was awarded on Wednesday, 9 September, 2015. The standings were thus:
As a prize for Hufflepuff winning the Cup, an image was produced, titled "Famous Hufflepuffs Through The Ages".
In April 2013, Pottermore was integrated into PlayStation Home, a feature available to members of the PlayStation Network, accessible through the PlayStation 3 console. The feature introduced a new minigame called "Book Herding," as well as an expanded Duelling system and also allowed existing Pottermore users to link their accounts and collect new trading cards.
New Writing by J.K. Rowling is a main feature by Pottermore. Everything written for the feature is considered the highest level of canon. Originally, a lot of the writing could only be read by signing up for the old version of Pottermore. The writing would be unlocked in moments. However, when Pottermore was relaunched, a lot of the writing was lost until they started to upload them again. They can now be read without signing up.
Rowling created the Sorting Hat Quiz along with a welcome message for each house that have remained the same. The Ollivanders Bespoke Wand Selector has also remained the same. In 2016, the Ilvermorny Sorting Quiz and the Patronus Quiz were created as well.
The following is a list of every writing released through Pottermore that can still be read, sorted alphabetically -
The following is work posted by the old version of Pottermore that can no longer be read.
Pottermore used to have a Timeline of the Wizarding World which can no longer be found.
The writing for the 2014 Quidditch World Cup was a special feature. The following is listed by order they were posted -
DISASTROUS OPENING CEREMONY LEADS TO QUESTIONS ABOUT QUIDDITCH WORLD CUP SECURITY (12 April 2014)
Rowling also wrote book extracts for Hogwarts textbooks that could be read when needed in moments and when making potions and duelling -
Rowling also wrote fact files for some of the characters -
Ronald Bilius "Ron" Weasley (b. 1 March 1980) was an English  pure-blood wizard, the sixth and youngest son of Arthur and Molly Weasley (née Prewett). He was also the younger brother of Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, and the elder brother of Ginny. Ron and his siblings lived at the The Burrow, on the outskirts of Ottery St Catchpole, Devon.
Ron began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1991 and was Sorted into Gryffindor House. He soon became close friends with fellow student Harry Potter and later Hermione Granger. Together, they made the Golden trio and faced many challenges during their adolescence, including keeping the Philosopher's Stone from Professor Quirinus Quirrell, rescuing Ginny from the Basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets, saving Harry's godfather Sirius Black from the Dementors of Azkaban, and guiding Harry through the Triwizard Tournament.
He also helped form Dumbledore's Army and fought in numerous battles of the Second Wizarding War. These battles included the Battle of the Department of Mysteries (1996), Battle of the Astronomy Tower (1997), and Battle of the Seven Potters (1997). Ron also became a Gryffindor prefect and a Keeper on the Gryffindor Quidditch team during his fifth year at Hogwarts.
He skipped his last year of school in order to accompany Harry and Hermione on a hunt to destroy all of Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes and fought in the Battle of Hogwarts in 1998, during which he lost his brother Fred, a loss which devastated him and his family, especially George, Fred's twin.
After the war, Ron became an Auror and helped reform and revolutionise the Ministry of Magic. After two years as an Auror, he went to work at Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes with his brother George. He and Hermione eventually married and had two children, Rose and Hugo Granger-Weasley. Ron was also named the godfather of James Sirius Potter, his sister Ginny Weasley's and Harry Potter's eldest child.
Ronald Bilius Weasley was born 1 March 1980, to Arthur and Molly Weasley (née Prewett), at the height of the First Wizarding War. During this war his maternal uncles Fabian and Gideon Prewett, both members of the Order of the Phoenix, were murdered while fighting a group of four Death Eaters led by Antonin Dolohov. While he was still a toddler, the war ended for a time after Lord Voldemort's first defeat at the hands of Ron's classmate-to-be Harry Potter on the 31 October, 1981.
Ron and his five older brothers — Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred and George — as well as his younger sister, Ginny, grew up in The Burrow on the outskirts of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon, England. Like all his siblings, he was home educated in reading, writing and simple mathematics by his mother. The Weasley family was not wealthy at all, compared to other wizarding families. Many other pure-blood families, particularly the Malfoys, disdained them for their "blood traitor" beliefs and lack of wealth. They tried their best to make up for this with their love.
The Weasley siblings, especially Fred and George, were fond of teasing and playing pranks on each other, and Ron was a particular target for Fred and George. They once Transfigured Ron's teddy bear into a giant spider, sparking his arachnophobia. On another occasion, the twins nearly got him to make an Unbreakable Vow, which finally made their father truly furious (and Fred would later state that his left buttock has "never been the same since" after the row that ensued). They also once got him to eat an Acid Pop which burnt a hole through his tongue.
When Ron was younger, he had a pet rat named Scabbers, whom he had inherited from Percy. This rat was actually Peter Pettigrew, an informant and Voldemort's servant who betrayed Harry's parents. Ron was very fond of Scabbers, but wasn't sad to let him go when he found out the truth about his old rat. Ron had a fairly happy childhood, which Harry envied, having been brought up by his spiteful relatives, the Dursley family. To compensate for their impoverishment, Ron's mother indulged him in three delicious meals daily. This became so habitual that missing a meal in later life would irritate Ron.
The trio meeting for the first time on the Hogwarts Express
Ron began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1991 at the customary age of eleven. He was Sorted into Gryffindor House, like every other Weasley. On his first trip on the Hogwarts Express, Ron met and became friends with the famous wizard Harry Potter. Harry let him share his carriage on the Hogwarts Express and purchased a large amount of wizarding snacks from the Hogwarts Express food trolley to share with him. Later on, Harry would stand up for Ron against Slytherin bully Draco Malfoy and Ron would elect to be his second for a midnight duel.
Ron being sorted into Gryffindor by the Sorting Hat
Ron and Harry first met Hermione Granger on the train but Ron did not particularly take to her. Ron, especially, was annoyed by what he saw as Hermione showing off her knowledge of magic, such as when she corrected him on the pronunciation of the incantation Wingardium Leviosa.
Ron and Harry after having defeated a fully grown Mountain Troll
Prior to the Hallowe'en feast, Ron angrily declared that Hermione was a know-it-all and did not have any friends. Hermione overheard his outburst and went running to the girl's bathroom in tears. That evening, during the Hallowe'en feast, it was announced that a mountain troll was loose in the school. Ron and Harry came to Hermione's rescue after hearing that she was in trouble, with Ron successfully using the Levitation Charm to levitate the troll's club and drop it on its head, knocking it out. She, in return, lied to protect them from Professor McGonagall. The three then became very close friends.
Ron sacrificing himself in the chess game in the Philosopher's Stone Chambers
During their first year, the three of them learnt that the Philosopher's Stone was being hidden in Hogwarts and sought to protect it from being stolen by Severus Snape, whom the young wizards believed to be working for Lord Voldemort. Ron's talent in Wizard's Chess allowed them to pass one of the obstacles protecting the stone, which was a life-sized game. Ron sacrificed himself as a game piece so Harry could place the enemy king in checkmate, allowing Harry and Hermione to move on.
Ultimately, it was discovered that Professor Quirrell was trying to steal the stone for Voldemort. Harry succeeded in defeating him and protecting the Philosopher's Stone, and Ron was awarded fifty House points by Albus Dumbledore for "the best played game of chess that Hogwarts has seen these many years", allowing Gryffindor to win the House Cup for the first time in seven years.
Ron and Harry flying a car to school in their second year
Having not heard from Harry Potter during the whole summer of 1992, Ron, Fred and George Weasley, in a planned scheme to rescue him from 4 Privet Drive, drove Arthur Weasley's flying Ford Anglia to the Muggle town of Little Whinging and tore the bars from Harry's bedroom window using the car's horsepower. Ron helped Harry get his things in the car, and they left for the Weasley House. Upon landing Ron and his brothers were ratted out by Molly Weasley for having taken such a risky course of action.
At the start of that year's school term, Ron and Harry missed the Hogwarts Express due to the tricks of Dobby the house-elf and were forced to use the Ford Anglia to travel to Hogwarts. At the end of their journey, the car failed, causing the boys to crash-land into the Whomping Willow. They were nearly killed when the tree shook, and the car jettisoned them and took off into the Forbidden Forest, where it remained.
The writing on the wall and the petrified form of Mrs Norris
Ron's wand was damaged in the crash, causing him problems for the entire school year. It backfired when Ron attempted to curse Draco Malfoy in payback for calling Hermione a "Mudblood" with the Slug-vomiting Charm, resulting with him vomiting slugs and slime.
Malfoy's disdain towards Muggle-borns led Ron, Harry, and Hermione to suspect that he was the Heir of Slytherin who opened the Chamber of Secrets that year, unleashing a "monster" that began to attack Muggle-born students.
The trio preparing to take Polyjuice Potion
To investigate this theory, Hermione brewed a Polyjuice Potion which greatly surprised Ron in that she was so overtly breaking the rules. When the time came to use the potion, Ron was made to impersonate Vincent Crabbe, and Harry impersonated Gregory Goyle, while Hermione's transformation was unsuccessful because she mistook hair from Millicent Bulstrode's cat for her own.
Ron and Harry interrogated Malfoy in the Slytherin Common Room. While in the common room Malfoy proceeded to insult both Dumbledore and Harry. He also made a callous comment about Hermione, hoping that she would be the Muggle-born victim that dies during the attacks. "But I know one thing: last time the Chamber of Secrets was opened, a Mudblood died. So I bet it’s only a matter of time before one of them’s killed this time … I hope it’s Granger". This comment upset both Ron and Harry, but they were able to maintain their covers. Ron and Harry realised that Malfoy was not the Heir of Slytherin. In fact, Malfoy had no idea who was behind the attacks.
Harry and Ron following the spiders, which led them to Aragog
Ron and Harry were both greatly upset when Hermione became another victim of the "monster", ending up petrified in the Hospital Wing, though she left her friends a clue that led them to deduce that the monster was a basilisk. Ron showed incredible bravery during the course of their investigation by venturing into the Forbidden Forest to an Acromantula den led by Aragog, in spite of his extreme fear of spiders.
Harry and Ron learned Rubeus Hagrid had nothing to do with opening the chamber, but when Aragog tried to make a meal of them, they narrowly escaped thanks to the magic that had engulfed the Flying Ford Anglia. After exisiting the forrest Ron was uoset with Hagrid for endangering their lives.
When he and Harry learned that Ginny (Ron's younger sister) was dying in the Chamber of Secrets, they raced to save her, planning to give their information to Professor Gilderoy Lockhart. When the pair discovered that the professor was attempting to flee, they drew their wands on him and forced him to join them as they ventured into the Chamber of Secrets.
Ron, Harry, and Lockhart standing in the Chamber of Secrets next to Basilisk skin
Shortly after Ron, Harry, and Lockhart entered the Chamber, Lockhart attempted to wipe their memories in order to get out of the Chamber and take credit for their efforts in a bid for fame. Unfortunately for him, he used Ron's damaged wand, and the spell backfired, causing permanent amnesia in Lockhart. Ron was left behind to tend to Lockhart, as Harry delved deeper into the Chamber, saving Ginny and defeating Salazar Slytherin's basilisk, saving all the petrified students.
Ron was honoured with a Special Award for Services to the School, as well as earning two hundred House points for Gryffindor for his work concerning re-sealing the Chamber of Secrets.
Ron and his family in Egypt
In the summer following Ron's second year at Hogwarts, the Weasleys won the Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw. Ron and his family used the money to travel to Egypt to visit Ron's eldest brother, Bill. News of their lucky break made the Daily Prophet, and Ron sent that newspaper clipping and a Sneakoscope to Harry for his thirteenth birthday. They met on the last day of the summer, when Ron and his family visited Diagon Alley with Harry and Hermione and took up rooms in the Leaky Cauldron in preparation for catching the Hogwarts Express.
During their stay at the Leaky Cauldron, Ron shared a room with his brother Percy. Unfortunately, this led to a fight. Percy believed that Ron had taken his Head Boy badge, which had actually been stolen by Weasley twins Fred and George. Harry found the twins hiding, enchanting the badge to say "Big Head Boy". Later, Ron was also accused of smudging a picture of Percy's girlfriend, Penelope Clearwater with tea (Penelope thus hid herself outside the frame so nobody could see her splotched nose).
Dementors boarding the Hogwarts Express in search of Sirius Black
Also that summer, Sirius Black, the most famous prisoner in Azkaban, escaped, and in light of this incident, security was tightened at Hogwarts which Ron and his friends noticed when the Hogwarts Express was stopped and searched by Dementors. Once at the school, Dumbledore announced that Dementors would be stationed around the school gates to prevent Black from entering Hogwarts. This was done under the assumption that Harry was being targeted by Black.
Upon starting the term, the third-years began taking new lessons. Ron and Harry had chosen Divination and Care of Magical Creatures, while Hermione decided to take every possible class offered and began to exhibit strange behaviour that neither Ron nor Harry could figure out. The pair quickly decided that Divination was not a class they really liked and that the professor, Sybill Trelawney, was a fraud.
Ron's first Care of Magical Creatures lesson
Ron's first Care of Magical Creatures was a disaster. Hagrid, the new Care of Magical Creatures professor, had planned what he thought to be a spectacular class on hippogriffs, when a hippogriff named Buckbeak attacked Draco Malfoy after Malfoy had insulted the rare creature, causing Malfoy to promise revenge. Also during that week, Ron had his first Defence Against the Dark Arts class with the new professor, Remus Lupin, and in short order Ron thought that Lupin was an excellent professor.
On Hallowe'en, Ron and Hermione went on their first Hogsmeade trip. Harry, however, could not join them as his uncle Vernon had not signed his Hogsmeade permission slip. Meanwhile, Ron and Hermione visited every building in Hogsmeade and brought back loads of sweets from Honeydukes for Harry. They were discussing blood-flavored lollipops and Cockroach Clusters.
Ron, Harry, and Hermione at Hogsmeade
Harry used the Marauder's Map to sneak into Hogsmeade. He then met Ron and Hermione in Honeydukes. They visited the Three Broomsticks, a pub run by Madam Rosmerta. When Cornelius Fudge, Minerva McGonagall, Filius Flitwick, and Rubeus Hagrid arrived, Harry hide underneath their table to avoid being seen. Harry used a tunnel to sneak into Hogsmeade village.
While sneaking back into the school, he overheard a disturbing conversation that had a severe impact on his mental state. Sirius Black was his parents' best friend, and was his godfather and legal guardian. Black was the Potters' Secret Keeper and he allegedly divulged the Potters' secret whereabouts to Lord Voldemort and murdered their friend Peter Pettigrew, as well as twelve Muggle bystanders. Peter left a finger to prove that he had been killed with the twelve Muggles. That evening, Sirius Black sneaked into Hogwarts, and the students were forced to spend the night in the Dining Hall.
Just before Christmas, Rubeus Hagrid received a complaint from the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures about Buckbeak the hippogriff. When he shared this incident with Ron, Harry, and Hermione, the trio promised to do everything in their power to help defend Buckbeak.
Ron riding Harry's Firebolt for the first time on the Hogwarts Quidditch pitch
Ron and Harry put the defence of Buckbeak on the back-burner when on Christmas Day, Harry received a Firebolt broomstick from a mysterious sender. When Hermione, afraid for Harry's safety, turned the Firebolt in, Ron stopped talking to Hermione. The Firebolt incident only added to the rough tension between the two, as Hermione's new pet Crookshanks had been continually trying to attack Ron's rat, Scabbers. A few weeks later, when the two were on the verge of making up, Scabbers disappeared and Ron blamed Crookshanks, threatening the friendship between them.
In the meantime, Black was yet to be found, and the night following the Gryffindor vs Ravenclaw Quidditch match, he sneaked into Gryffindor tower. Hearing the sound of ripping bed curtains, Ron awoke with a start to see Sirius Black standing over him holding a knife. He screamed, and Black fled.
Professor McGonagall and the residents of Gryffindor Tower in the common room after Sirius Black's break-in
When Ron had woken up the entire Gryffindor House they all gathered in the Gryffindor Common Room to discuss the events. Professor Minerva McGonagall, the Head of House, was called. Ron explained his story and theorised that Black must have gone for the wrong bed and was aiming for Harry Potter. McGonagall asked Sir Cadogan about it and he told her that he had let Black enter after Black gave him the correct passcode.
Another search of the castle took place, but Black escaped capture again. The Fat Lady resumed her duty of guarding Gryffindor Tower on the condition her portrait be guarded. Neville was placed in detention and stripped of his visitation rights to Hogsmeade for the rest of the school year and the other Gryffindors were forbidden to tell him the password to the tower, forcing him to wait outside for someone to let him in while the security trolls guarding the Fat Lady leered unpleasantly at him. But none of that compared to the Howler his grandmother sent him during breakfast, which shouted at him that he had brought shame to the family.
This incident made Ron famous among the other students, but he came back down to Earth when Hagrid scolded him and Harry about their treatment of Hermione, who Hagrid told them was in over her head with all of her classes and the work she was doing for Buckbeak. Shocked, the pair patched things up with her a few days later, when they received a letter from Hagrid saying that Buckbeak had been sentenced to execution.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione visiting Hagrid right before Buckbeack's execution
With exams coming up, the trio set about studying and attempting to help Hagrid with Buckbeak's appeal. The appeal took place on the last day of their exams. Hearing that Buckbeak had lost, and was to be executed, Ron, Harry and Hermione went to visit Hagrid in the evening just before the execution. They offered to help set the record straight, but Hagrid told them that they would be in big trouble if they were seen. Helping the sobbing Hagrid make tea, Hermione found Scabbers hiding inside a milk jar. Soon they were hurried out the back of the hut, all the while they continued to lobby for a chance to set the record straight. When they heard what sounded like the killing, Ron, Harry and Hermione set off for Hogwarts in a slight state of shock.
Sirius Black capturing Ron and dragging him to the Whomping Willow
Before they made it back there, Scabbers began to squirm in Ron's hands and escaped. Not wanting to lose his rat again, Ron chased after Scabbers with Harry and Hermione behind him. He caught up to Scabbers, but not before they were in the shadow of the Whomping Willow tree. He looked up to see a large black dog bearing down upon him. The dog dived at Ron and gripping Ron's arm in its mouth, it dragged him into the Whomping Willow. To try and stop the dog from pulling him further, Ron tied his feet around a tree branch, but the dog's grip was so powerful his leg snapped. When the dog reached the Shrieking Shack, it let go of Ron and revealed itself to be Sirius Black.
The trio encountering Sirius Black in the Shrieking Shack
Sirius ambushed Harry and Hermione, disarming them when they entered the room where Ron was being held hostage. Upon seeing him, Harry attacked Black with Hermione and the seriously injured Ron helping in any way they could, but Harry could not bring himself to finish the job when he had Black in his power, and he was disarmed by Professor Lupin. Relieved at the sight of Lupin, Ron became worried when Lupin and Black greeted each other like brothers and demanded that Ron turn over his rat, Scabbers. Sirius and Lupin then told them about their own years spent at Hogwarts and how a wizard named Peter Pettigrew betrayed Harry's parents to Voldemort then framed Sirius and transformed into a rat to go into hiding.
Still not fully convinced, Ron reluctantly handed over Scabbers when Lupin promised that if he was actually a rat, no harm would come to him. Scabbers was revealed to be Pettigrew, whom Sirius had recognised due to a missing toe. (Pettigrew has cut off one of his own fingers before transforming). A tearful Pettigrew confessed to the betrayal and begged for mercy from his former friends.
Ron in the Hospital Wing with a broken leg, unable to walk
When it was decided that Pettigrew should be turned over to the Dementors, Lupin splinted Ron's leg, and the assembled company left for Hogwarts. Along the way, the full moon broke out, and Lupin began to transform into a werewolf. In the skirmish, Pettigrew stole Lupin's wand, stunned Ron, and escaped into the moonlight. Hours later in the Hospital Wing, Ron was recovering both from his broken leg and Pettigrew's attack. Ron was unable to walk, so he did not join Harry and Hermione on their rescue mission. Ron was told that Harry and Hermione had managed to save Sirius from the Dementor's Kiss and Buckbeak from execution with Hermione's Time-Turner.
Ron understood why Hermione did not immediately mention the Time-Turner. Ron was slightly dismayed but, now knew the reason for her strange behaviour and timetable earlier on, he was nevertheless relieved that Sirius and Buckbeak were both safe and free.
Ron offering Pig to Crookshanks to check on Hogwarts Express
As a replacement for his lost pet, Sirius sent Ron a tiny owl. Ron, to the surprise of both Harry and Hermione, allowed Crookshanks to sniff the owl. Crookshanks gave his approval, thus confirming that it was in fact just an owl. Ginny immediately named Pigwidgeon because she thought the name was "sweet"; annoyed and disgusted at this, Ron tried to choose another name, but it was too late, so he settled for using the nickname "Pig".
Ron at the 1994 Quidditch World Cup with his friends and family
In the summer of 1994, Ron invited Harry and Hermione to accompany the Weasleys to the Quidditch World Cup, which was being held in Britain for the first time in decades. While Hermione joined the Weasleys at the Burrow, Harry had to be picked up from the Dursleys. Arthur Weasley arranged to pick up Harry via Floo Network, not knowing that the Dursleys' fireplace was blocked, so when Ron, Arthur, Fred and George tried to fetch Harry they ended up stuck in the chimney. Part of the Dursleys' house was destroyed before Harry returned to the Weasley's house.
The following day, Harry, Hermione, and all the Weasleys except Molly Weasley left for the Quidditch World Cup, where they set up camp and met many of their friends from Hogwarts or the Ministry. They had prime seats for the match, thanks to Mr Weasley, who had helped Ludo Bagman, Head of the Department of Magical Games and Sports, out of a messy problem. During the match Ron watched Viktor Krum, the Bulgarian Seeker, play an excellent match and catch the Snitch. Even though Krum caught the Snitch the Irish National Quidditch Team still won the match.
Ron, Harry, and Hermione after the riot at the Quidditch World Cup
That night, while the Irish supporters were still awake celebrating their victory, trouble began. Some Death Eaters who had managed to avoid imprisonment in Azkaban, attacked the camp where Ron and his friends and family were staying. Mr Weasley ordered Ron, Harry, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny to get to safety, while he and the older Weasley children set off to help the Ministry of Magic. Fred and George were responsible for Ginny's safety, which left the trio to themselves.
Running off into the woods, Ron, Hermione, and Harry quickly lost Fred, George and Ginny, but they did find Draco Malfoy. Malfoy meanly suggested that Hermione, being a Muggle-Born, could easily be targeted by the Death Eaters, causing Ron to insist that she and Harry join him in going deeper into the woods. Soon they reached a patch of woods giving off a silver glow, where the trio found a few Veela witches surrounded by admirers. Ron was entranced and stated that he would create a broom that would fly to space. They had reached an empty clearing when they heard an unknown person cast the Dark Mark.
The trio during a Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson on the Unforgivable Curses
On 1 September, Ron and his friends departed for Hogwarts aboard the Hogwarts Express. That evening at the Welcoming Feast, Dumbledore announced that Hogwarts would host the Triwizard Tournament. Ron found himself caught up in dreams of being a Triwizard Champion, but he was snapped back to reality by his fourth year classes. In Care of Magical Creatures, Hagrid had his students tending to Blast-Ended Skrewts, and in Defence Against the Dark Arts, Ron was impressed by the new professor, "Mad-Eye" Moody, when he taught the class about the three Unforgivable Curses.
It was announced that the students from the Durmstrang Institute and Beauxbatons Academy of Magic would be arriving at Hogwarts on 30 October. Ron was dumbstruck when he saw Viktor Krum among the Durmstrang students, not realising how young his hero was. He was disappointed when Krum sat among the Slytherin students.
An angry Ron and an upset Hermione watching as Harry's name came out of the Goblet of Fire
Having discussed the possibility of somehow outsmarting the Goblet of Fire and the Age Line that Dumbledore had cast around it, Ron was surprised to find that Harry's name had come out of the Goblet of Fire. Jealous of the fact that Harry always seemed to receive all the attention, Ron refused to accept that Harry didn't put his name in the cup. He even went as far as to accuse Harry of cheating his way into the tournament. After the argument, he and Harry stopped talking to each other, and Ron began hanging out with other Gryffindors like Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan.
Ron and others watching Harry participate in the first task
When Ron heard Harry talking to someone one night, he went down to see who it was since Harry didn't tell him about such a thing. When Harry accused Ron of trying to spy on him and when he told him who he talked to was none of Ron's business, Ron was deeply offended to the point where he tried to get Harry to tell him whom he was talking to by accusing him of practising for an interview. This only made Harry throw one of Draco Malfoy's "Potter Stinks" badges at him and tell him he could wear that during the First Task of the Triwizard Tournament. This made Ron finally realise that the reason Harry had started avoiding him was because Harry felt betrayed by him to the point where he had lost Harry's trust and respect and Harry no longer saw him as a friend, a realisation that deeply hurt Ron.
Ron and Harry did not talk to each other again until after the First Task. After seeing just how much danger was involved in the task, Ron realised Harry would never have put his own name into the Goblet of Fire, and the two became best friends once again.
Ron wearing his more traditional dress robes
Soon after the First Task, Professor McGonagall told Ron and the other Gryffindor boys about the traditional Yule Ball, held during the Triwizard Tournament. While all students above fourth year scampered around trying to find dates, Ron and Harry found it hard to ask girls to the ball. Struck by the beauty and charm of Fleur Delacour, the Triwizard Champion from Beauxbatons Academy and a part-Veela witch, Ron asked her to attend the ball with him, but fled in embarrassment without waiting for an answer. He also offended Hermione by not asking her, and then by suggesting that she did not have a date and thus could accompany him.
Ron with his date at the Yule Ball
Harry was eventually able to get them both dates with twins Parvati and Padma Patil. Ron's evening was a fiasco of the first sort. His "traditional" dress robes embarrassed him and his date, Padma Patil, and when Ron saw Hermione with Viktor Krum, he became intensely jealous. This led to a blazing argument between them during the end of the ball, with Ron making comments about Krum being too old for her and Hermione accusing him of ruining everything. Though their friendship did not suffer, it was clear that both had developed feelings for each other.
During the Yule Ball, Ron had overheard Hagrid telling the Beaubaxtons Headmistress Olympe Maxime that he was half-giant. This information was also overheard by Daily Prophet Reporter Rita Skeeter, who wrote an article telling the wizarding world of Hagrid's heritage. This drove Hagrid to stop teaching for a time until Ron, Harry, and Hermione told him that they he was still their friend, no matter what.
Harry retrieving a captive Ron during the second task
On 24 February, Ron was put into an enchanted sleep and tied up at the bottom of the Black Lake, to be "rescued" by Harry as part of the second task of the Triwizard Tournament. When he found out that Harry had stayed behind to save Fleur's sister Gabrielle Delacour as well, Ron jokingly took him to task, but was impressed when Harry was given extra points for "outstanding moral fibre".
Fleur thanked Ron and Harry in turn for helping save Gabrielle, kissing both of them on the cheek. Ron gained much attention from the other students due to his being taken hostage for the task. He proceeded to exaggerate the events of what happened until Hermione called him on it.
Early in the spring, Ron joined Harry and Hermione in visiting Sirius Black, who had taken to hiding in Hogsmeade. There, they discussed the disappearances of Ministry officials Barty Crouch Snr and Bertha Jorkins. In the weeks leading up to the final tournament task, Ron and Hermione helped Harry prepare by researching and trying out different jinxes and other helpful spells for the task. Ron and Hermione watched Harry together from the sidelines.
Ron was present when the Minister for Magic visited Harry in the hospital wing
They were shocked when Harry returned with Cedric Diggory's dead body. Ron was relieved to see Harry when he was brought to the infirmary by Professor Dumbledore, eagerly wanted to question Harry about Diggory, but he was told off by Molly Weasley who, along with his brother Bill Weasley, had come to watch Harry. Ron was furious with the Minister for Magic, Cornelius Fudge, when he refused to believe Harry and Dumbledore, and calmed Molly when she was shocked by Black's appearance in the room. Ron did not go against Harry's story when he finally heard it, sticking by his best friend.
Ron with others in 12 Grimmauld Place preparing to clean
After Voldemort rose to power and the Second Wizarding War began, Dumbledore reformed the Order of the Phoenix. In the summer of 1995, the Order moved into their headquarters at 12 Grimmauld Place with the Weasley schoolchildren and Hermione Granger, where they helped Molly Weasley clean the old house and remained watchful for information about Harry. In August, Harry arrived at the headquarters after a Dementor attack on his cousin. Ron felt sorry that he had to keep Harry oblivious to the Order's plan and soon learnt that Harry's anger had been growing due to his isolation from his friends and his persecution by the media.
Ron, Harry and Hermione stayed at Grimmauld Place throughout August. In late August, Ron and Hermione were made a Gryffindor prefect, for which Molly and Arthur gave Ron a new Cleansweep Eleven. Bound by their prefect duties, Ron and Hermione were separated from Harry on the Hogwarts Express and could only join Harry in his compartment for the last part of the journey. When they arrived, Ron expressed concern that Hagrid was not at the welcoming feast and was suspicious of the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Dolores Umbridge.
The first DADA class with Umbridge as the professor
At school, Ron was one of the many students who expressed frustration with Professor Umbridge's refusal to teach the class practical defensive magic. He also won the position of Keeper on the Gryffindor Quidditch team but was described by the team captain as "needing improvement". Ron's Quidditch practice caused him to fall behind in his schoolwork, to Hermione's chagrin. Soon, Ron's brother Percy Weasley sent him a letter advising him not to remain friends with Harry, whom he accused of being mad for supporting Dumbledore. Ron was outraged by the letter's contents, tearing it into eight pieces and throwing it into the Gryffindor common room's fireplace, angrily declaring his brother to be "the world's biggest git".
Late in September, one evening when Harry returned from detention with Professor Umbridge, Ron, somewhat reluctantly, joined Hermione in convincing that Harry teach his fellow students defence against the dark arts. Harry initially disagreed, but after a few days he decided to give it a go. Around this time, Professor Umbridge was appointed the first Hogwarts High Inquisitor, giving her the power to randomly create new school rules and inspect teachers' lessons.
Ron during the meeting of students in the Hog's Head that would become known as Dumbledore's Army
Late in October, students had their first visit to Hogsmeade. There, Harry, Ron, and Hermione met with several students who were interested in learning proper defence. Ron defended Harry against Zacharias Smithwhen questions rose, and was among the first to sign the recruitment parchment. On the way home from Hogsmeade, Ron became upset when he learned from Hermione that his sister Ginny was dating Ravenclaw student Michael Corner. The following morning, Ron awoke to find that suddenly, by order of Professor Umbridge, all student groups had been disbanded including the House Quidditch teams, but he was mollified when Harry said they would continue with their secret group, which Ginny named "Dumbledore's Army" during their first meeting, mocking the Ministry of Magic's fears of student uprisings.
In the weeks following the first Dumbledore's Army meeting, Quidditch season arrived. Ron had nervous issues prior to the first match against Slytherin. They had made badges saying "Weasley is our king", which Harry decided could not mean anything good. In an attempt to distract Ron from the Slytherins, Hermione kissed him on the cheek for luck, effectively stunning Ron. Ron's play was abysmal, and it was not helped by the Slytherins' new song also entitled, "Weasley is Our King". Following the game Ron wanted to resign, but learned he could not, as Harry Potter, Fred, and George Weasley had been banned from Quidditch for life.
Hagrid telling Harry, Ron, and Hermione of his negotiations with the giants
That evening Hagrid returned from his unknown disappearance. Although initially resistant he regaled the trio with his tales of the giants, though he refused to give them any hint about his gruesome injuries from Golgomath's tribe. Ultimately Hagrid's mission was a failure.
Following Hagrid's return, he took up his post as Care of Magical Creatures professor. In Hagrid's first lesson, Ron learned about Thestrals, magical creatures that could only be seen by wizards and witches who had witnessed death.
Harry informing the Weasleys of their father's attack at the Ministry
Frequent Dumbledore's Army meetings, O.W.L. homework, and his prefect duties took up most of Ron's time as the holidays approached. Following the last meeting of the term, Ron was amazed at Harry's "romantic" tale, earning him a stern talking to from Hermione who suggested that Ron had "the emotional range of a teaspoon." That night, Harry witnessed Ron's father, Arthur Weasley, being attacked by Lord Voldemort's snake, Nagini. When Harry's story was confirmed by Dumbledore and McGonagall, Ron, his siblings, and Harry were immediately sent to the Order's Headquarters, so they could look in on their father's convalescence, and there they spent the Christmas holidays, joined by Hermione the next day.
Ron with siblings Fred, George and Ginny practising with the D.A.
During their first trip to St Mungo's Hospital, Ron overheard "Mad Eye" Moody thinking that Harry had been possessed by Voldemort. Ron was worried when Harry became quiet after the visit and wanted to talk to Harry about it. He got his chance after Hermione arrived and convinced Harry to come downstairs. Ron, Hermione, and Ginny told Harry how worried they had been and managed to confess that he was not being possessed. They had an enjoyable holiday, but on their second visit to the hospital, Ron learned the truth about the torture of Neville Longbottom's parents.
Ron conjuring his Patronus
Throughout the term, Ron continued to learn defensive and offensive magic from Harry. He also stayed on the Gryffindor Quidditch team, despite his very poor performances. Due to Quidditch, he missed the Valentine's Day visit to Hogsmeade. Though, he was impressed that Harry went public and hopeful that people might believe Harry when The Quibbler came out. Soon, Umbridge managed to sack Professor Trelawney, but her ability to name a replacement was pre-empted when Dumbledore arranged to have Firenze the Centaur teach the subject. Umbridge was affronted by this new staffing appointment.
Ron and others watching as Fred and George openly mocked Umbridge's authority
Soon after Trelawney's sacking, Marietta Edgecombe, a friend of Ravenclaw Student Cho Chang's who only reluctantly joined Dumbledore's Army, told Umbridge about the group, but was unable to give up any pertinent information once she saw a jinx activate on her face. Ron was able to escape when Umbridge, raided the Dumbledore's Army headquarters, but he was incensed when Professor Dumbledore was forced out of the school. He was also wary when his brothers Fred and George Weasley said they were going to do their part for Professor Dumbledore. After Fred and George's secret escape from Hogwarts, Ron was certain that his mother would blame him, but he was saved from this fate when Harry revealed that it was he who financed Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes.
Ron played in the final Quidditch match of the season, though Harry and Hermione did not watch, as Hagrid finally revealed the source of his injuries to them. Ron played better, and Gryffindor won the Quidditch Cup. Ron was unable to settle to his studies the following day, but Harry and Hermione brought him down with Hagrid's secret injuries.
Ron and other D.A. members being held captive by Umbridge
Shortly thereafter, their Ordinary Wizarding Level exams were upon them. Ron managed to do very well, but he made a few mistakes. During their final exam, Harry dozed off and had another vision. This time, he saw Sirius being tortured by Voldemort in the Ministry. When Harry told Ron and Hermione of this they were wary, and Hermione suggested that Harry try to contact Sirius first. Ron ran off to distract Umbridge, but the plan failed, and Ron and his friends were rounded up and taken to Umbridge's office. There, Ron, Ginny, Neville, and Luna Lovegood managed to fight off Umbridge and her Slytherin Guards and escape to find Harry and Hermione outside the forest.
Ron, Luna, Neville, Harry, Hermione, and Ginny in the Death Chamber
Ron insisted that he join Harry in rescuing Sirius, but also insisted that the rest remain behind, but realised when many Thestrals appeared. When Harry led them into the Department of Mysteries, Ron stuck with him into the deepest recesses of the Department. There, the six Dumbledore's Army members were ambushed by twelve Death Eaters, led by wizarding aristocrat Lucius Malfoy, and Ron helped defend the prophecy Harry took from the Hall of Prophecy, but his fight was soon over as a Death Eater had wiped his brains. Ron was so confused that he summoned a tentacled-brain from a vat in the Thought Chamber and was attacked by it, but soon recovered later on. Ron was devastated by Sirius's death, but made sure that Sirius's death was not discussed around Harry.
During the summer following the battle, Ron learned he had received seven O.W.L.s, only failing Divination and History of Magic. Ron explained he did not mind, as he, like Harry, didn't like those subjects very much, anyway. Also during that summer, Ron learned that his brother Bill was engaged to Fleur Delacour. While this annoyed his mother, sister, and later Hermione, Ron took to defending Fleur and if she surprised him, he would still take on that dumbstruck look. His soft spot for Fleur particularly annoyed Hermione, who was finding it harder to keep her feelings for him under wraps.
Ron and others visiting Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes
When Ron and Hermione learned that Harry was in fact the "Chosen One", Ron remained at Harry's side. Ron, Hermione, Harry, Ginny, Molly, and Arthur also visited the twins shop Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes. Ron was impressed with the shop and the twin's flair for business. He attempted to take some products, but was told to put them back after he revealed he had no currency. The trio also followed Draco Malfoy and learned that he wanted something repaired and that he put something else on hold.
Ron trying out as Keeper for the Gryffindor Quidditch team
Ron would suffer much personal turmoil in his sixth year. Harry was named Gryffindor team captain. Ron was nervous about Quidditch try-outs, but beat out Cormac McLaggen in saves, partly because Hermione cast a Confundus Charm on McLaggen in retaliation for him insulting Ron and Ginny. He was also envious when Harry and Hermione were invited to the Slug Club, while the new Potions professor Horace Slughorn ignored him, and when attention was paid to him, Slughorn usually got his name wrong.
During this time, Ron showed brief flashes of jealousy about Harry and Hermione's closeness. He would take exception whenever Hermione complimented Harry on something Ron thought was equally due to him. Ron was temporarily mollified about this when Hermione asked if he would like to attend the club's Christmas party with her, and he agreed, but thought it was only as friends.
Ron playing as Keeper against Slytherin in the first match of the year
Ron was also worried over his sister's increasing involvement with boys, and after stumbling upon her kissing Dean Thomas, he blew up at her. In retaliation, Ginny belittled him for his complete inexperience with the opposite gender, declaring that Harry and Hermione had also snogged people. The siblings treated each other coldly afterwards, and Ron was so bothered by this — and by the revelation that Hermione had kissed Viktor Krum almost two years earlier — that he began to perform poorly in Quidditch.
He also began to treat Hermione with a cold indifference, which confused her. He even offered to resign from the team. To boost his confidence, Harry pretended to pour the Felix Felicis into Ron's Pumpkin juice at breakfast. Harry even allowed Hermione to see the vial, so she would object to the cheating. This convinced Ron that he had an edge in the game, which caused him to play excellently. However, when after the match Harry revealed it was a trick, Ron rounded on Hermione and accused her of having no faith in his abilities.
Ron dating classmate Lavender Brown
Shortly thereafter, Ron began his exhibitionist relationship with Lavender Brown. Hermione, incredibly angry and hurt by Ron's vindictive actions, conjured a flock of canaries to attack him; the birds scratched Ron badly. Although he did not report this, he spent a long time ranting about her violent and hypocritical act, and he and Hermione stopped talking to each other after that. When Hermione attended the Slug Club's Christmas party, she had originally wanted to attend with Ron but went with his hated rival, Cormac McLaggen, while Ron snogged Lavender in public and made fun of Hermione's behaviour in Transfiguration class, reducing her to tears.
By Christmas break, however, Ron was becoming disenchanted with his relationship with Lavender, who had become increasingly possessive, annoyed him with the nickname "Won-Won", and gave him a gift of a necklace that said "My Sweetheart". Hermione did not come to The Burrow for the holidays as she usually did, and Ron made an attempt to speak to her after returning to school, but she ignored him.
Ron having a fit after ingesting the poisoned mead
On 1 March 1997, Ron ate chocolate that he believed to be one of the presents for his 17th birthday, but was in fact a gift from Romilda Vane to Harry spiked with a love potion. He found the box on the floor after Harry had chucked it out of his trunk thinking in was apart of his pile of presents by the foot of his bed. Upon ingesting the chocolate, Ron became maddened with an obsessive need to see and be with Romilda. Harry thinking fast proceeded to take Ron to Slughorn's office to get an antidote. When in Slughorn's office while Harry attempted to get Slughorn in a good mood hoping to get the true memory from him, Ron was nearly killed by poisoned mead intended for Albus Dumbledore. Harry managed to save Ron with a bezoar. The bezoar was one Slughorn had in his kit taken from a previous potions lesson. If it wasn't for Harry's timely actions and quick thinking Ron would have died.
A poisoned Ron being attended by Madam Pomfrey
A panic-stricken Hermione arrived at the Hospital Wing, forgetting her anger with him. Ron said Hermione's name in his sleep upon hearing her speak for the first time all day, and the two quietly reconciled after his near-death experience. Ron also took to feigning sleep whenever Lavender tried to visit him. He remained in the hospital the following week and was not able to play Keeper on Saturday 8 March for the Gryffindor vs Hufflepuff Quidditch match.
On Monday 10 March Ron and Harry, who suffered a cracked skull from a mishit Bludger during the match, were able to leave the hospital wing, although Ron did not tell Lavender this. His subsequent avoidance of Lavender and simultaneous spending more time with Hermione made Lavender suspicious; after she spotted him and Hermione leaving the boys' dormitories, seemingly alone (Harry was with them, but under his Cloak of Invisibility), Lavender ended the relationship, much to Ron's relief.
Ron suggesting that Harry use Felix Felicis to retrieve the memory
Ron also had the idea of using Felix Felicis to retrieve Slughorn's true memory, while he and Hermione were preparing for their Apparition test. A little later, Ron was suitably impressed when Harry told him and Hermione how he managed to obtain the Horcrux memory from Professor Slughorn. A few weeks later, when Harry used Sectumsempra on Draco Malfoy, Ron lent his potions book to Harry, so Professor Snape would not confiscate the Half-Blood Prince's book. Ron did not endorsee what Harry did to Malfoy, but he did not consider it that bad. He took this stance because Malfoy healed okay and did not sustain any lasting damage. Ron also understood why Harry wanted the Half-Blood Prince's book back.
The funeral of Albus Dumbledore
On the night of the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, Ron took Felix Felicis on Harry's instructions, along with Hermione and Ginny. Those three were joined by Neville Longbottom and Luna Lovegood, whom Hermione had summoned using the D.A. coins. While Hermione and Luna monitored Professor Snape's office, Ron and the others watched the Room of Requirement. Ron fought in the battle and survived without any major injuries, thanks to the Felix Felicis.
He was shaken by his oldest brother Bill's scarring at the hands of the vicious werewolf Fenrir Greyback. Shortly afterwards, Ron attended the funeral of Albus Dumbledore, where he comforted a sobbing Hermione. He and Hermione informed Harry of their intention to accompany him on a quest to locate and destroy the Horcruxes of Lord Voldemort, forgoing their seventh year of school.
The Weasley's ghoul transfigured and sick looking
During the summer of 1997, Ron began planning ahead for his mission with Harry and Hermione. With the help of his father and Fred and George Weasley, Ron transfigured the family ghoul to resemble himself sick with spattergroit, which would serve as his alibi for not attending his seventh year of Hogwarts while travelling with his friends. Mrs Weasley was unware of this plan, as she was in denial about the trio's plans to drop out of Hogwarts.
The seven Harrys and their protectors preparing to take off
In late July, he participated in the Order's operation to remove Harry from his childhood home, taking Polyjuice Potion to be one of the "seven Potters." He flew with Nymphadora Tonks; they were pursued by at least three Death Eaters during the battle, including Bellatrix and Rodolphus Lestrange. Ron stunned one of the Death Eaters in the face while flying. Ron reassured Hermione by nuzzling her back slightly upon landing as she had been quite worried about him and he was saddened at the death of "Mad-Eye" Moody. He was also saddened by the death of Harry's beloved pet owl Hedwig, over which he comforted Harry. Ron became concerned when Harry had a vision of an imprisoned Garrick Ollivander being brutally tortured by Lord Voldemort in the cellar at Malfoy Manor.
Ron, Harry, and Hermione during the reading of Albus Dumbledore's will
Once Ron, Harry, and Hermione were all convened at the Burrow, they made plans to leave, much to the displeasure of Ron's worried mother. During the preparations for Bill's wedding, Mrs Weasley set Ron, Harry, and Hermione to separate tasks to prevent them from planning. On Harry's seventeenth birthday, Ron gave Harry a copy of Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches. Later that evening, Minister for Magic Rufus Scrimgeour visited the Burrow to dispense the contents of Dumbledore's will. He questioned the trio, and Ron let slip that they had no idea why Dumbledore would bequeath anything to him. Ron received Dumbledore's Deluminator.
Kingsley warning the wedding attendees that the Ministry had fallen
The trio attended the wedding for which, all summer, they had been forced to prepare the Burrow; the marrying couple was Ron's older brother Bill to Fleur Delacour on 1 August. Ron was irked and jealous that Viktor Krum was a guest, especially since he immediately complimented Hermione, who Ron quickly asked to dance shortly afterwards. When Viktor Krum asked who he thought was Barny Weasley (though it was really Harry in disguise) about the pair, he was somewhat disappointed to learn that they were "sort of" together, but not officially a couple.
Ron casting a Stunning Spell in the café while battling Death Eaters
The celebrations were interrupted with the news that the Ministry of Magic had fallen to Voldemort, and Hermione Disapparated herself, Ron, and Harry away from the danger to Tottenham Court Road. This was the starting point to the trio's adventure and search for the Horcruxes they needed to bring down Lord Voldemort. After they arrived at Luchino café they were ambushed by Death Eaters Antonin Dolohov and Thorfinn Rowle there and a skirmish broke out. After stunning and wiping the memories of the Death Eaters, the trio took refuge in Harry's inherited house 12 Grimmauld Place left to him by Sirius Black.
Mundungus talking to the trio about the Horcrux locket
There, the trio learned from Kreacher that Regulus Black had stolen the Horcrux Voldemort had made of Slytherin's Locket in 1979, and that it had been stolen from 12 Grimmauld Place by Mundungus Fletcher. Under interrogation, he informed them that the locket was now in the possession of Dolores Umbridge.
While they were waiting for Kreacher to fetch Mundungus, they were visited by Remus Lupin. He informed the trio about the goings on in the wider wizarding world. He told them that Harry was now the most wanted wizard in Britain and that Muggle-born witches and wizards were being rounded up. Ron immediately said that he would vouch for Hermione.
The trio disguised during their infiltration of the ministry, Ron being on the far right
They formulated a plan to infiltrate the Ministry, involving the use of Polyjuice Potion to assume the forms of Ministry employees Reginald Cattermole, Albert Runcorn and Mafalda Hopkirk. Ron, disguised as Reginald Cattermole, quickly found himself forced to separate from his friends, as Death Eater and new head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Yaxley, demanded that "Cattermole" fix the rain in his office.
Ron was in over his head, but may have found a solution to the problem after asking Arthur, who had no idea of Ron's true identity, for help. The trio reunited after Harry and Hermione stole the locket from Umbridge and freed some Muggle-born witches and wizards being held by the Muggle-Born Registration Commission, and then escaped, but were forced to abandon Grimmauld Place as a hideout. Ron splinched himself during their escape into the countryside and was weakened by his injury. After receiving some treatment from Hermione, Ron fretted over the fate of the Cattermoles.
Ron and Harry fighting right before Ron abandoned the Horcrux hunt
Afterward, weeks passed with no further progress. This, as well as the locket's negative influence, caused great tension and animosity amongst the group of friends. When he wore the locket, Ron was sullen and suspicious, lashing out at his friends and continuously complaining. Ron abruptly abandoned his friends one evening after getting into a fight with Harry over the additional task of locating Godric Gryffindor's Sword in order to destroy the locket. He accused Harry of having no plan and of not being very concerned about Ginny, whom they had learned was punished back at Hogwarts. When Ron asked if Hermione was going with him and she told him that she was staying, he accused her of choosing Harry over him, and left, despite Hermione screaming and crying for him to come back.
As soon as he was outside the influence of the Horcrux, Ron came to his senses and tried to return. However, he had a run-in with Snatchers first, who interrogated him. Ron claimed to be Stan Shunpike, and then took an opportunity to escape. He apparated numerous times to try to find Harry and Hermione, splinching fingernails off at one point, but could not find them. He then went to stay with Bill and Fleur at their new home, Shell Cottage. Soon after Christmas, Ron used the Deluminator Dumbledore bequeathed him to locate his friends.
Ron returning to the hunt and destroying the locket Horcrux
Ron made his way to the Forest of Dean, where he arrived just in time to rescue Harry from drowning in a semi-frozen pond. When Ron attempted to use Godric Gryffindor's Sword to destroy the locket, horrible incorporeal images of Harry and Hermione came forth which cruelly mocked Ron about his many insecurities, including his fears that Hermione would choose Harry over him. This brought Ron to the point of tears. However, Ron successfully stabbed the Horcrux with Godric Gryffindor's Sword.
Afterwards, Harry took Ron aside to assuage his fears about Harry and Hermione. Saving Harry's life earned him Harry's forgiveness, but Hermione — who was unaware of what the Horcrux had done — was still furious with him for his abandonment for some time and attacked him mercilessly upon sight until Harry cast a Shield Charm to stop her.
Upon his return, Ron was happy to the point of giddiness, because he thought that they had an ally out there somewhere. He sought to hide this happiness when around Hermione in an act of contrition. When Hermione proposed a trip to the Lovegood's house to investigate a recurring symbol, Ron wholeheartedly agreed. Harry privately accused Ron of only agreeing to get back on Hermione's good side, a fact that he did not deny stating, "All's fair in love and war, and this is a bit of both."
The trio speaking with Xenophilius Lovegood at his home, near the village of Ottery St Catchpole
The trio learned of the existence of the Deathly Hallows from Xenophilius Lovegood. Xenophilius, worried for his daughter Luna, who was being held hostage by Death Eaters, tried to capture the trio. They narrowly escaped, Hermione engineering it in a way that preserved Ron's alibi of being sick at home. While Harry obsessed over the Hallows, Ron and Hermione thought they should focus on finding the Horcruxes, as Dumbledore had instructed them. During Harry's period of listless obsession, Ron's leadership qualities began to show. He suggested that they search many wizarding settlements for clues if only to be in motion and actively searching.
Ron and Hermione held captive at the Malfoy Manor
During the Easter holidays of 1998, the trio was captured by a gang of Snatchers led by Fenrir Greyback after Harry accidentally  broke the Taboo on Voldemort's name. Hermione hit Harry in the face with a Stinging Hex in order to disguise him. Harry, Hermione, and Ron quickly lied and gave fake names; Harry being Vernon Dudley, Hermione being Penelope Clearwater, and Ron being Stan Shunpike. Ron was beaten (his mouth extremely bloody) and was then forced to use another name, Barny Weasley. This was due to the Snatchers already knowing who Stan Shunpike was. The Snatchers also found Godric Gryffindor's sword in their tent, there was no explaining that.
They were then brought to Malfoy Manor, where Lucius Malfoy attempted to get his son to identify Harry. Draco said that he did not know whether it was Harry or not, but immediately recognised Ron and Hermione. The trio then meet with Bellatrix Lestrange, whom separated them. Ron tried to persuade Bellatrix to take him for questioning instead of Hermione. She responded that she would interrogate him next if Hermione died during questioning, as "blood-traitor was next to mud-blood in her book". Ron was forced into the dungeon with Harry, Dean Thomas, and the goblin Griphook. In the dungeon they found Luna and Mr Ollivander, whom were captured in 1996.
Dobby dropping the chandelier, allowing the prisoners time to escape
Hermione was kept upstairs and tortured by Bellatrix, her screams reducing Ron to tears. The group was saved by Dobby, who was sent by Aberforth Dumbledore. He freed Harry and Ron to run upstairs to save Hermione, who managed to lie under torture about where they had obtained Gryffindor's Sword. Ron disarmed Bellatrix after she avoided a chandelier dropped by Dobby, and pulled Hermione from the wreckage of the fallen chandelier, Disapparating them both to Bill and Fleur's home Shell Cottage. They stayed there with Luna, Fleur, Bill, Mr Ollivander, and Griphook. He attended the burial of Dobby, where he humbly gave him his shoes and socks.
The trio speaking with Griphook about what lay within the Lestrange Vault at Gringotts
At the cottage Hermione recovered and she, Ron, and Harry planned to break into Gringotts Wizarding Bank in order to take Hufflepuff's Cup, and a Horcrux, within the Lestrange Vault. Griphook the goblin agreed to help them in exchange for Gryffindor's Sword. Ron, knowing that the sword was needed to destroy Horcruxes was reluctant to let Harry part with it. Harry suggested that they delay handing the sword over until the Horcruxes were destroyed. As the planning went forward, Ron along with Harry and Hermione found Griphook to be increasingly distasteful.
Ron and Hermione, disguised as Dragomir Despard and Bellatrix Lestrange
On the morning of 1 May 1998, they broke into Gringotts with Hermione disguised as Bellatrix Lestrange, Ron as a fictional foreign wizard named "Dragomir Despard", and Harry under his Invisibility Cloak with Griphook. As they were headed down into the vaults, the Gringotts defences (the Thief's Downfall in particular) were set against them, and Ron's disguise melted away. Once in the vault, it was discovered that all the treasure had Geminio and Flagrante curses put on them. Although they were betrayed by Griphook, the trio obtained Helga Hufflepuff's cup and escaped the wizarding bank on the back of a dragon.
The trio Apparating into Hogsmeade before the start of the final battle
After getting off the dragon escaping from the wizarding bank, Ron saw Harry having one of his visions. He was told that Lord Voldemort finally knew that they were hunting Horcruxes and that the final one was at Hogwarts. Harry, Ron, and Hermione apparated under the invisibility cloak to Hogsmeade looking for a way into Hogwarts. They were soon cornered by Death Eaters set to watch the town. Ron drew his wand ready to fight them, but Harry suggested that advantage lay in stealth and that attacking would give away their position. Once the Death Eaters ordered Dementors to search the town for the trio, Harry was forced to perform the Patronus Charm. After Harry's Patronus chased away the Dementors the trio found refuge in the Hog's Head.
A heated discussion with the proprietor followed, who turned out to be Aberforth Dumbledore. The discussion revolved around Harry's mission and the seeming defeat of the Order of the Phoenix. After this they were lead into Hogwarts by a badly beaten Neville Longbottom, whom in Harry's absence became the de facto leader of the D.A. They arrived in the Room of Requirement and found that the reformed Dumbledore's Army was hiding out there. Harry whom had developed trust issues, did not like the idea of allowing the other DA members to help. Ron persuaded Harry to let the others do so anyway.
Hermione and Ron destroying the cup in the Chamber
While Harry searched for Ravenclaw's Diadem, Ron and Hermione entered the Chamber of Secrets to retrieve basilisk fangs. Ron mimicked the Parseltongue he had heard Harry use to open Salazar Slytherin's locket and succeeded in gaining entrance to the Chamber. Hermione used the fangs to destroy the Horcrux of Hufflepuff's Cup, and they then reunited with Harry. When Ron expressed desire to evacuate the house-elves from the Kitchens, Hermione, who had always been concerned for creatures so often mistreated by society, was so touched that she ran, nuzzled and kissed him, much to Ron's delight. However, their kiss was interrupted by Harry, who pointed out that there was a war going on and that they could carry on later, to which Ron pointed out there might not be later.
Hermione and Ron running from the towering flames
Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the Room of Requirement to find Ravenclaw's diadem, but were ambushed by Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. When Crabbe unleashed a cursed fire, the trio escaped by means of broomsticks; Harry saved Draco, and Ron and Hermione saved Goyle. They then witnessed the death of Ron's brother Fred in combat, which devastated Ron, who wanted revenge. Hermione managed to calm him by reminding him that they would have to fight on their way to finding Nagini, Voldemort's final Horcrux. The trio made their way to the Shrieking Shack, and witnessed the snake kill Severus Snape on Voldemort's orders. While dying, Severus Snape's memories leaked out of him, which Harry collected into a glass phial to latter view in the headmaster's office.
Ron witnessing Harry's final defeat of Lord Voldemort
During the pause in the Battle of Hogwarts, Ron went to the Great Hall, where Bill comforted him over Fred's death and Hermione comforted Ginny. Harry went up to Dumbledore's office and emptied Snape's memories into the Pensieve. He entered the Pensieve and finally learned the truth of it all. After emerging from the Pensieve, he made use of the distraction to slip out and confront Voldemort. Following his alleged death, the battle resumed, and Ron and Neville Longbottom brought Fenrir Greyback down together. Ron witnessed Harry defeat Lord Voldemort once and for all, and survived the battle without serious injury.
The trio joining the Ministry, creating a new world
Ron never received a seventh year of education at Hogwarts. Instead of completing his education, he moved on to become an Auror (along with Harry) at the Ministry of Magic, where he helped track down and capture those of Lord Voldemort's supporters that had gone into hiding, or else feigned innocence or ignorance whilst having actually cooperated and willingly supported his regime. Two years after he started at the Auror Office, he left to help his brother George at Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes in Diagon Alley, although he retained strong ties in the Ministry, and their work revolutionised both the Auror department and the institution at large, and along with Hermione, the trio helped "make a new world" for the wizarding community.
His decision to do so was questioned by Rita Skeeter, who thought that Ron was tired of standing in Harry's shadow, and wrote in her gossip column that Ron was likely mentally ill (this must, of course, be taken with more than a small pinch of salt due to Rita's habit of writing scathing lies in articles), having said himself that the Horcrux hunt had "took its toll" on him.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione as adults after the war
Sometime between 1998 and 2006, Ron married Hermione, and later the couple had two children: Rose and Hugo. Ron was also the godfather and uncle of Harry and Ginny's oldest son. At some point, Ron, Harry, and Hermione were all featured on Chocolate Frog Cards for their accomplishments, which Ron considered his "finest hour".
Ron himself noted that he and Hermione were quite young when they were married and that he became rather drunk afterward, having very little memory of the night after the ceremony.
Ron stopping by at the Deathday Party
On 31 October 2009, Ron came back to Hogwarts to bring his Deluminator to Headmistress McGonagall so she could take another look at it. On the way there, he travelled past London and used the Deluminator to collect the lights of half a street. When he arrived, he happened to be attracted to Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington's Deathday Party, where he talked to an unidentified student and showed them the Deluminator. When Peeves caused the lights in the party hall to go out, Ron encouraged the student to use the Deluminator to restore the lights.
Seeing the ghosts at the party also inspired Ron to develop with George a banquet platter that looked and smelled bad (which might be appealing to ghosts) but tasted fresh when taken off of the plates. Several days later, he met the unidentified student again at Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, and they talked about the ghosts as well as the unfinished banquet platter.
Ron with others at the end of the battle
During the 2010–2011 school year, Ron came back again to his alma mater to join the defence force against Dementors and other Dark creatures when they attempted to attack the castle. He was seen putting up and reinforcing the spherical shield around the castle with students and staff, and he also participated in the big battle that ended the attacks. He discussed with Harry, Hermione and the staff about the cause of the attacks afterwards, and when Harry said he had an idea, Ron guessed that he meant the Death Eaters, though it was not what Harry had in mind.
The student and Ron at Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes
Ron was looking after Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes one day when the unidentified student visited again, and he introduced several products to them such as the Wildfire Whiz-bangs, trick wands and Skiving Snackboxes and told stories about them. For the last one, he showed them the Canary Cream, and they both ate it and briefly turned into canaries. The student asked if there were other flavours of it, and Ron took it to be a good advice to develop more flavours to mix into other food or tempt others into eating, joking that he would eat a drumstick-flavoured biscuit at once.
George, Ron and the student at Zonko's
Another time, Ron and George followed the student into Zonko's Joke Shop while debating about whether old joke products could still become a big sale. The student recognised them, and Ron argued that products like Dungbombs were classics for a reason, and if Zonko's was able to sell them well, so could they. George demanded evidence from him, and the student suggested they learn from their customers about their preferences. The brothers then started a fight that involved different kinds of pranks to determine what people liked more. After George invited Harry with selling the products, Ron became upset and invited Hermione, who was unable to decline. At the end, George asked Ron to summarise the results of the questionnaires, but neither of them kept record. Ron wondered how they could know the winner, and felt it would be better if Fred was there, who he believed was more thoughtful and quick to action, though George reckoned both of them were better at those than Ron. They reminisced about Fred, and were joined by the student's friends.
Ron, Hermione and their children Rose and Hugo all attended the final of the 427th Quidditch World Cup in the Patagonian Desert in July 2014, alongside Harry, Ginny, James, Albus, Teddy Lupin, Neville, Hannah, Luna, Rolf, Bill, Fleur, Victoire, and potentially others. Ron also became close with Harry's children, one of whom, James, was his godson. Lily Luna Potter and Ron's son were close in age and good friends, as were Ron's daughter and Albus Severus Potter.
Ron seeing his daughter off to platform 9¾ in 2017
In August of 2017, Ron, having settled into a rotund middle age, obtained a Muggle driving licence. He also admitted putting a Confundus Charm on the Muggle driving inspector because he had forgotten to use his wing mirror properly, excusing this mistake because casting a Supersensory Charm would be more effective. That year, he and Hermione sent their daughter off for her first year at Hogwarts, and Ron encouraged Rose to be Sorted into Gryffindor House and to beat Scorpius Malfoy in marks. He hugged Hugo gently.
A 37-year-old Ron with his family
As the train faded away, Ron remembered his time at Hogwarts and how he would love to be going back. At a gathering with Hermione, Harry and Ginny, they talked about the meeting and Ron attempted to cheer everyone up by making jokes which led them them telling him to stop. Before the start of the new school year, Ron and Hermione told Rose to try and befriend Albus again since they have drifted apart since starting Hogwarts.
A while later, Ron attended a meeting at the Ministry of Magic. Hermione was worried about how Harry was having nightmares and his scar was hurting again. Ron got into an argument with Draco Malfoy.
Hermione and Ron standing in her office at the Ministry of Magic
When Albus and Scorpius meddled with time, they changed Ron's life. In one alternate reality, Ron helped Harry and Ginny find Albus. Ron never married Hermione and instead married Padma Patil. In another alternate reality where Voldemort won, Ron was in hiding with Hermione as a member of what remained of Dumbledore's Army. They were visited by Severus Snape and Scorpius who told them about the original timeline where they won. Ron agreed to help correct time by time-travelling to the moments where Albus and Scorpius changed time and use a Shield Charm to stop them.
However, when they stopped them the first time, they returned to a present that hadn't changed much. They were attacked by Dementors and Ron and Hermione sacrifice their souls after professing their love for each other to give Scorpius time to escape. Their sacrifice, combined with Snape's a short time later, allowed Scorpius to return to the Second Task and set things right completely.
When the original timeline was restored, Ron was asked to attend a meeting with Professor McGonagall to talk about what happened. He turned up late having somehow ended up in the kitchens instead. Ron, Hermione, Harry, Ginny and Draco were very forgiving of Albus and Scorpius so McGonagall reminded them of the great dangers of what they had done.
Harry, Ron, Draco, and others travelling back in time to assist Albus and Scorpius
Albus and Scorpius were kidnapped by Delphi and made to time-travel to 31 October, 1981. Ron went with Hermione, Harry, Ginny, and Draco to the past to save them and stop Delphi. However, under Ginny's prodding, they realised that Delphi did not to want to kill baby Harry, but rather to stop Voldemort from doing so in the hope he would live and his reign would continue. Delphi thought she could make her father stronger as he would know love when he met her, which its lacking was what had originally led to his downfall. Ron helped Harry duel Delphi and they apprehended her. Ron then returned to the present where Delphi was sent to Azkaban.
During the Calamity, Ron would assist the members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force who pursued a Professor Profession when he ran into them in the Leaky Cauldron by debating on defensive footwork during duelling, causing them to gain increased resilience.
In the spring of 2021, The Unforgivable threatened Harry and Hermione after the two began wrenching control of Calamity surges away from the cabal. The two feared that their children would be targeted, but Harry insisted on continuing to fight against the Unforgivable. Harry redirected a Calamity surge and controlled it using memories of the Marauders. By April, Ginny had been attacked and Ronald had been abducted.
Ron at age 17
Ron inherited the typical Weasley family traits: fiery red hair and a freckled complexion. When he became embarrassed, his ears notably turned red. He had blue eyes, a long nose, and was described as being very tall and lanky, with big hands and feet. In this way, his stature was similar to those of his older brothers Bill and Percy, rather than the heavily built Charlie, and Fred and George.
His sister Ginny once joked to the trio that Ron had a Pygmy Puff tattoo, though it is doubtful that the remark had any truth in it.
By 2014, when he was at the age of 34, Rita Skeeter remarked on a Daily Prophet gossip column that his "famous ginger hair appears to be thinning slightly".
By 2017, Ron had settled into a round middle age and was later described to be getting "a bit of a gut" by his nephew, yet hiding it extremely well.
He had scars from the brains which attacked him in the Thought Room in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.
Ron was a very loyal, brave, strong and humourous person, but sometimes immature, and insensitive. He had a sardonic, wisecracking sense of humour that often brought his friends laughter and relaxation. However, as Hermione Granger and Luna Lovegood pointed out, his humour could occasionally be hurtful, even if unintentionally. During his time searching for Voldemort's Horcruxes with Harry and Hermione, Ron matured greatly, and even took to leading the trio when Harry temporarily fell into a depressive mood.
Ron and Hermione during one of their frequent arguments
Though his loyalty and bravery never faltered Ron's character was also marked by occasional jealousy and insecurity rising from feeling overshadowed by his five older brothers and his parents' constant comparisons between him and their other children. He could be argumentative, a trait particularly displayed in his bickering with the equally argumentative and occasionally highly critical Hermione. Though their bickering was frequent, it was never malicious (with the brief exception of sixth year) and generally a way to hide their deeper feelings for each other.
Inheriting the Weasley trait of a strong temper Ron was not above provocation especially when dealing with the spiteful treatment of Professor Snape and the bigotry and hatred of Draco Malfoy. Always willing to stand up for his friends and family even when angry with them, Ron never stopped standing up for Hermione when she faced Muggle-born related prejudice and hatred. He also stood by Harry's side when he was met with disbelief and scorn from his classmates and Wizard society in general. Ron frequently demonstrated great bravery in attempting to protect those he loved, from facing his arachnophobia to stand by Harry in his second year to trying to take Hermione's place when Bellatrix Lestrange isolated her for interrogation with the Cruciatus Curse.
Ron playing Quidditch as Keeper
As a boy, Ron was very sensitive about his family's poverty, and sometimes embarrassed by them. Many, if not all, of Ron's possessions were hand-me-downs, including his robes, school books, wand, and even a pet rat whom he called Scabbers. His family's lack of finances often made Ron a target for taunting by Draco Malfoy, a spoiled, arrogant Slytherin. Ron was also prone to insecurity about his abilities, when compared to his older siblings and to his famous best friend. When he felt insecure or embarrassed, it was noted that his ears turned red. This became his tell-tale sign of his anger and embarrassment. He felt as if he was consistently overshadowed by the legacy of his older brothers and the fame of Harry; this lead to a feeling of being "second-best".
Although passionate about Quidditch, especially the Chudley Cannons, and a fine flyer, Ron had a problem with nerves, and sometimes his playing ability suffered for it. Salazar Slytherin's Locket revealed that Ron's deepest fears were that his mother loved him least and that Hermione preferred Harry to him. He also suffered from arachnophobia, a fear originating from his brother Fred transfiguring his teddy bear into a spider when Ron was a child.
Ron's point of view on many topics was often that of the stereotypical wizard, which clashed many times with those of Harry and Hermione because they were both raised by Muggles; but in exchange, he was typically more aware of standard factors abided by wizardkind. Examples of this are that while he liked Lupin the entire third year, the moment he discovered that Lupin was a werewolf he exclaimed "Get away from me, werewolf!"; that he was more shocked and disgusted than Harry and Hermione at discovering that Hagrid was half giant; and when he got into an argument with Griphook over wizards not giving goblins wands. However, he was clearly very much appreciative of Dobby's sacrifice for them, as he helped Harry dig the grave, found it difficult to say stuff at the grave (it is mentioned it "came out thickly", implying he was choked up), and he had sat on a rock and stripped off his shoes and socks, giving them to Dobby to be buried in.
Ron showing his fondness for food as he enthusiastically eats chicken legs
Ron was particularly fond of food. He had a tendency to talk with his mouth full, often to Hermione's disgust, and a great fondness for bacon sandwiches, though he disliked corned beef sandwiches, as mentioned in his first year; his love of food eventually made him settle into a portly middle age. And like Harry, Ron was intelligent, but lacked the motivation to put forth effort in class due to incredible laziness; during their years at school, Ron frequently expected Hermione's help, and when she either refused or was unavailable, he was often dumbfounded about how to proceed. If not for Hermione's help, he would have undoubtedly failed his exams.
Ron was also shown to have a habit of swearing. In 1993, he called Professor Snape something that caused Hermione to exclaim: "Ron!". Also, after Draco Malfoy insulted him, Ron told him to do something he would never have dared say in front of Mrs Weasley. He also called Draco Malfoy a "two face-bastard" during the Battle of Hogwarts after saving him from a Death Eater, and rescuing him for a second time, from death.
Ron was brave, to a level which would put him on a par with his best friend Harry; he never hesitated to put himself into extremely dangerous situations with his best friends Harry and Hermione, and as shown many times, he would rather die than have someone else he cared about be harmed. He risked his life on many occasions, and his bravery was not unnoticed by his friends.
Ron was also quite pragmatic and, despite his occasionally fierce temper, was usually able to keep a more level head in stressful situations compared with Harry and Hermione. His pragmatism was demonstrated by his defence of Bartemius Crouch Senior's harsh treatment of his house elf Winky, with Ron stating that Winky liked being told what to do by Crouch to the point that she held a seat for him despite her acrophobia and that this was because she wasn't human and as such didn't think like one. Another example of Ron's pragmatic nature was when he discovered the truth about Albus Dumbledore's past with Gellert Grindelwald as while Harry was disgusted by Dumbledore's past desires to rule over Muggles alongside Grindelwald and Dumbledore's secrecy over this, and even Hermione expressed huge shock over this, Ron simply stated that Dumbledore was still growing up at that age and changed as he got older. However, Ron's pragmatism occasionally made him naïve and insensitive, as while he believed that Winky liked being told what to do and acknowledged that she wasn't human, he was ignorant to Winky's acrophobia and her emotional distress once she was sacked by Crouch Senior.
Ron was also a person who liked to do things the easy way, as he did not like to work hard. This quality was reflected in his first year when he just picked up books from the Hogwarts Library shelves randomly when finding out about Nicolas Flamel. He also had a tendency to make up predictions for his Divination homework, and frequently copied most of his homework from Hermione Granger. However, he could afford to let go of this tendency of his during tougher times, like when he researched information to help Hagrid in letting off Buckbeak in his third year. His peculiar trait did not seem to vanish, even after he grew up, as he confunded his driving examiner (breaking the International Statute of Secrecy which is considered illegal) and shrugged off his guilt by saying "I could always use a Supersensory Charm for that".
Ron was very protective of those he cared about, and this was shown perhaps, best of all, when Ginny was involved in a relationship with Dean Thomas. He was, of course, looking out for her, but his temper got the best of him and he lashed out at her, as she did the same to him.
Ron's corporeal Patronus (form of a Jack Russell Terrier)
Ron was often insecure about his own abilities, when compared to his elder brothers and famous best friend. However, once that lessened he proved to be a powerful wizard in his own right. Ron was able to conjure a corporeal Jack Russell terrier Patronus, a mark of superior magical ability.
Ronald and Hermione casting the Stunning Spell during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries
Ron playing Quidditch
Ron's second wand
Ron's first owl Pigwidgeon
Ron's Christmas present from Lavender
Ron with the Deluminator in Malfoy Manor
The Weasley family
Ron was quite close with his family. Although he was sometimes embarrassed by their lack of money, Ron was fiercely protective of his siblings, and always stoutly defended his parents. He was outraged when his brother Percy called their father a failure and greatly upset their mother with his estrangement, as Ron was close to both of his parents.
Ron looked up to his older brothers Bill and Charlie, though their accomplishments also made him feel insecure about what he had to live up to. Percy tried to be a role model for Ron, but Ron considered him rather pompous and annoying, and took after Fred and George more in terms of personality. Notably, Ron was the only family member Percy contacted after his estrangement from his family, congratulating Ron on becoming a prefect and advising him to cut ties with Harry, even though Ron was further disgusted by Percy's estrangement. Once he reconciled with his family, Percy was also the one who comforted Ron over Fred's death during the Battle of Hogwarts. The twins delighted in teasing Ron, as did his younger sister Ginny, though they were all close. Ron was very protective of Ginny, particularly in disapproving of her love life, which sometimes led to them fighting.
Other relatives of Ron were Fabian and Gideon Prewett, who were his uncles and members of the Order of the Phoenix. During the First Wizarding War, the brothers were attacked by five Death Eaters, including Antonin Dolohov. Both were killed in battle and were described as having "fought like heroes".
After the Second Wizarding War, Ron's family was extended when four of his siblings were married and had children. He also had two children with Hermione Granger, Rose, and Hugo Weasley.
Harry Potter, his best friend and future brother-in-law
Harry Potter had been Ron's best friend since 1991. The two were as close as brothers, as the Weasleys became like a surrogate family to Harry soon after the pair met on the Hogwarts Express at the start of their first year. They took to each other immediately, bonding over the vast array of wizarding sweets Harry happily shared with Ron, who was not able to afford his own from the Hogwarts Express food trolley. When Draco Malfoy spoke disparagingly of Ron's family, Harry rejected Draco's offer of friendship in favour of Ron's. Both Ron and Harry were Sorted into Gryffindor and therefore shared a dormitory. Ron defended Harry from fellow classmates and even Professor Snape.
Like all real brothers, Harry and Ron occasionally fought, especially when Ron's insecurities got the best of him. When Harry was chosen by the Goblet of Fire as Champion for the Triwizard Tournament, Ron believed Harry had indeed cheated to get into the contest. The two briefly fell out, but the friendship was repaired after the Tournament's First Task, when Ron realised that Harry could possibly lose his life to an event he had genuinely not wanted to enter.
Harry and Ron reuniting before the Battle of the Seven Potters
The two had another falling out in 1997, when the negative energy in Salazar Slytherin's Locket affected Ron to the point of making him resentful of Harry and unreasonably jealous of Harry's relationship with Hermione Granger, their other best friend and Ron's love interest. Ron temporarily abandoned his friends, though he instantly regretted it, and returned to save Harry's life. By and large, Ron was always fiercely loyal to Harry and risked life and limb on countless occasions for him. Even in 2020, Ron tried to prevent Harry from being transfigured into Voldemort due he didn't want Harry to be affected by his trauma. The two eventually became brothers-in-law when Harry married Ron's sister. Ron was the uncle of Harry's three children, and was godfather to Harry and Ginny's son James. Since the two became Aurors, it is likely that they worked together later in life.
Hermione Granger, his future wife and mother of his children
Ron's relationship with Hermione was rocky, but by and large, the two were good friends for most of their adolescence, with building romantic tension that culminated in a kiss during the Battle of Hogwarts. From the time Ron first met Hermione on the Hogwarts Express at the start of their first year, he found her annoying for "showing off" and regularly reciting the school's rules. His first thought was that he didn't want to be in her house and he groaned when she was Sorted into Gryffindor. Later on, he informed others of his annoyance with her, and mentioned that it was unsurprising that she didn't have any friends, which she overheard. Hurt, Hermione hid in the bathroom, crying, until Harry and Ron saved her from a troll that had been let into Hogwarts by Professor Quirrell. Following the troll incident, Hermione lied to Professor McGonagall to prevent Harry and Ron from getting into trouble. From that time onwards, the trio were best friends, in spite of Ron and Hermione's tendency to bicker.
Ron, Scabbers, Harry and Hermione together in their first year
Ron first began showing signs of romantic interest in Hermione in their second year; he was irritated by her crush on Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Gilderoy Lockhart, became so angry that Draco Malfoy called her a "Mudblood" that he tried to hex him, and was even more upset than Harry when she became one of the victims of the basilisk. In their third year, Ron and Hermione had their first real fight, when Ron accused Hermione's cat Crookshanks of eating his pet rat Scabbers, which had gone missing.
The two stopped speaking to each other for a time, but made up after Hagrid scolded Ron and Harry for their treatment of Hermione; Ron offered to help her with Buckbeak's trial, and Hermione hugged him. Also in their third year during their Defence Against the Dark Arts class when Professor Lupin was "ill" and Professor Snape was teaching instead, Ron was the only person that had enough courage to go as far as standing up to Snape when he called Hermione an "insufferable know-it-all".
In their fourth year, Ron and Hermione's romantic feelings for one another began to grow and become more obvious. Hermione was jealous of Ron's crush on Fleur Delacour, the part-Veela champion from Beauxbatons, and Ron became jealous of Viktor Krum, with whom Hermione attended the Yule Ball after Ron failed to ask her in time and then offended her with his clumsy attempt to do so. Though they rowed heatedly over Hermione seeing Krum, their friendship only suffered slight strain. Hermione's frustration over Ron's failure to realise and act on his feelings continued into their fifth year, as she commented that he had "the emotional range of a teaspoon". Ron was visibly affected when Hermione kissed him on the cheek before his first Quidditch game and irked that Hermione maintained a correspondence with Viktor Krum.
Ron and Hermione kissing in the Chamber of Secrets
Their sixth year would be a trying time for Ron and Hermione. When Hermione and Harry were invited to the Slug Club, while Professor Slughorn ignored Ron, Ron became resentful and jealous. He brightened up considerably after Hermione asked him to go to Slughorn's Christmas party with her. However, Ron had a row with his sister after catching her snogging Dean Thomas, during which she revealed that Hermione had snogged Viktor Krum sometime during their fourth year. Ron started acting coldly towards Hermione, much to her bewilderment.
In an attempt to boost Ron's confidence for an upcoming Quidditch match, Harry pretended to slip him some Felix Felicis in Ron's morning pumpkin juice, giving Ron the desired placebo effect that kept his nerves from hindering his performance as a Keeper. Harry had managed to trick Hermione into thinking he had given Ron a drop of the Felix Felicis as well, and she berated both Harry and Ron for taking an unfair advantage in the game. Though Ron had initially believed the Felix was behind his flawless performance, when Harry revealed he had not actually slipped anything in Ron's drink, Ron accused Hermione of not having faith in his abilities and thenceforth started ignoring her completely.
Ron teaching Hermione how to skip rocks
All this caused Ron to begin a shallow relationship with Lavender Brown. Hermione was hurt and furious, conjuring a flock of canaries to attack Ron, after which the two did not speak for months. Hermione even retaliated by attending the aforementioned Christmas party with Cormac McLaggen, an older Gryffindor whom Ron despised, simply to annoy Ron. By this time, Ron was already growing tired of his relationship with the very clingy Lavender.
When Ron was accidentally poisoned with mead on his birthday, Hermione forgot her anger in her worry for him, staying by his side until he recovered. Ron looked forward to these visits from her while pretending to be asleep whenever Lavender visited him. By the time Ron was allowed to leave the Hospital Wing, he and Hermione were closer than ever, and the former's romance with Lavender ended quickly when Lavender saw Ron and Hermione coming down from the boys' dormitories together, while Harry was with them under his Invisibility Cloak. At the end of the year, their mutual affection was visible when Ron gently comforted Hermione as she cried on his shoulder at Dumbledore's funeral.
Afterwards, the two grew much closer, though were only "sort of" together, according to Harry. They danced together at Bill and Fleur's wedding, where Ron also showed his continuing jealous dislike of Viktor Krum, who was a guest. During the hunt for the Horcruxes with Harry, Ron comforted Hermione several times by putting his arm around her, and the two were generally kinder to one another; Harry even suspected that they had fallen asleep in 12 Grimmauld Place holding hands after waking up and noticing that their hands were barely an inch away from each other.
Ron and Hermione falling asleep hand-in-hand in 12 Grimmauld Place
When Remus Lupin informed them of the Ministry's crack down on Muggle-borns, Ron offered to vouch for her by telling people that Hermione was his cousin, at which Hermione affectionately touched his hand and reminded him that they were on the run with the most wanted wizard in Britain. When Ron temporarily left his friends, Hermione cried over him for weeks; Ron was able to return by hearing Hermione's voice saying his name through his Deluminator. When Ron destroyed the locket Horcrux, it taunted him with visions of his greatest fears, one of which was Hermione preferring Harry to him. Hermione was initially furious with Ron for his abandonment, to the point of physically attacking him, though she eventually forgave him.
Later on, when the trio was brought to Malfoy Manor, Bellatrix Lestrange isolated Hermione for interrogation by the means of torture. Ron begged in vain to be taken in her stead, and after being thrown into the basement, Hermione's screams from above caused Ron to call her name in anguish, eventually reducing him to tears. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Hermione was touched when Ron expressed concern for the castle's house-elves, for whom she had always been concerned, and initiated a kiss, to which Ron responded very enthusiastically.
Sometime after the end of the Second Wizarding War, Ron and Hermione married and had two children, Rose and Hugo.They were rather young when they married, as noted by Ron in 2020. His nephew, Albus, noted that Ron was rather openly affectionate towards his wife and was known to kiss her in public rather frequently. At this time Ron proposed to Hermione again after reading about renewing wedding vows, showing that Ron had become rather romantic as he matured, which made Hermione melt, deeply touched by her husband's romantic gesture and agreeing on the spot to it. This shows hows Ron and Hermione's relationship had evolved and much of their bickering subsiding a bit for a more gentle marriage, yet still rife with their uniquely combative and verbally alarming undertones to it.
Hugo Weasley, his second child and son
After the Second Wizarding War, Ron and Hermione had two children, Rose and Hugo. As Rose was preparing to leave for her first year at Hogwarts in 2017, Ron jokingly told her that if she wasn't in Gryffindor he'd disinherit her. He also told her to beat Draco Malfoy's son Scorpius Malfoy on their tests, and that he was grateful she had inherited her mother's brains.
Ron's daughter Rose was close in age to Harry and Ginny's younger son Albus Severus, while Ron's son Hugo was close in age to Harry and Ginny's daughter, Lily Luna and they all appeared quite close.
After the Second Wizarding War, Ron had many nieces and nephews through his siblings. Bill and Fleur had three children: Victoire, Dominique, and Louis. Percy and his wife, Audrey, had two daughters, Molly (after Ron's mother) and Lucy. George and Angelina had two children, a son named Fred (after Ron's older brother) and a daughter named Roxanne. Ginny also married Harry and had three children, James (to whom Ron was godfather), Albus, and Lily.
Fleur Delacour, his sister-in-law
Fleur Delacour was a very beautiful, French, part-Veela witch. Ron developed a crush on her when he met her in 1994, during the Triwizard Tournament. He asked her to go with him to the Yule Ball, but she refused. However, after the the second task in the Tournament, when Harry "saved" Fleur's younger sister, Gabrielle from the Black Lake, Fleur treated both Harry and Ron (whom she believed helped Harry save Gabrielle) much more warmly. Following the death of Cedric Diggory and the end of the Tournament, Fleur kissed Ron and Harry and said goodbye to them before she left. After the Tournament, Fleur started dating Ron's brother, Bill. Bill sent her to live with his family for a few days, so that she could become more familiar with them. Ron told Harry that it was difficult to get used to her visiting when she kept appearing suddenly, leaving Ron in a sort-of trance.
Fleur eventually married Bill, and they lived at their own house, Shell Cottage. While Ron was looking for Horcruxes, he abandoned Harry and Hermione temporarily after they fought and spent that time at Shell Cottage with Bill and Fleur. Ron went to Shell Cottage again, after the Skirmish at Malfoy Manor, and Fleur cared for him and his friends like a mother.
Eventually, Ron and Fleur fought alongside each other and survived the Battle of Hogwarts.
Neville Longbottom, a good friend
Neville Longbottom became Ron's room mate in their first year at Hogwarts. Neville was shy and nervous, and regularly found himself being bullied by Slytherin students, like Draco Malfoy. Ron encouraged Neville to be more confident and to stand up for himself, and the two became close friends. Both Ron and Neville became members of Dumbledore's Army in 1995, and fought together in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries in 1996, and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower in 1997.
Ron was shocked when he learned that Neville's parents were patients at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, having been tortured to the point of insanity by Barty Crouch Jnr, Bellatrix, Rodolphus, and Rabastan Lestrange, and sympathised with his friend.
While Ron, Harry and Hermione left Hogwarts to find Voldemort's Horcruxes, Neville led Ginny Weasley, Luna Lovegood and several other students in reviving Dumbledore's Army and maintaining a steady opposition against the new Headmaster Severus Snape and professors Amycus and Alecto Carrow. Neville was adamant that the rest of the DA be included in whatever Ron, Harry and Hermione were doing to bring down Lord Voldemort, and he fought together with them in the Battle of Hogwarts, ultimately beheading Nagini with the Sword of Gryffindor and destroying the last remaining Horcrux. Together, Ron and Neville took down Fenrir Greyback.
After the Second Wizarding War, Ron and Neville remained close and saw each other regularly, as Neville was appointed Herbology professor at Hogwarts, and taught Ron's daughter in 2017.
Draco Malfoy, his school bully
Ron and his family were looked down upon by the Malfoy family for their lack of wealth and "blood traitor" status. Upon meeting Ron on the Hogwarts Express at the beginning of their first year, Draco Malfoy immediately expressed his disdain for the Weasleys. He was further irritated when Harry turned down his offer of friendship in favour of Ron's. Like their fathers, Arthur Weasley and Lucius Malfoy, Ron and Draco despised each other and frequently exchanged insults.
In their second year, Ron tried to hex Draco to vomit slugs after he called Hermione a "filthy little Mudblood", but the charm backfired due to a broken wand. He also attempted to physically attack him after Draco expressed a wish that Hermione was killed rather than petrified during the Chamber of Secrets affair. In their fourth year, Ron was immensely amused when Alastor Moody (Barty Crouch Jnr in disguise) transfigured Draco into a ferret. The following year, Draco invented the song Weasley is Our King to demean Ron's abilities as a Keeper for the Gryffindor Quidditch team. After he, Harry, and Hermione saved Draco and Gregory Goyle from the Room of Requirement, Ron punched Draco in the face and called him a "two-faced bastard" upon seeing him with a Death Eater.
By 2017, Ron and his friends' enmity with Draco had faded, though none of them were near friends. Ron discouraged his daughter Rose from becoming "too friendly" with Draco's son Scorpius. In 2020, it is shown Ron is slightly annoyed with Draco becoming friendly with Harry, and even cited that despite this he still disliked him. Nevertheless, he admitted that he felt sorry for Draco for the loss of Astoria, showing that despite their mutual enmity, even Ron in the end was not entirely without empathy for him.
Luna Lovegood, a good friend
Ron met Luna Lovegood in 1995 on the Hogwarts Express, and found her very odd. She found him very funny, but Ron suspected she was making fun of him when she laughed uproariously at a joke he made. After getting to know her better through Dumbledore's Army, Ron gradually became fonder of Luna, especially after she was one of the only D.A. members to come to the trio's assistance when they ventured to the Ministry of Magic and a battle ensued, during which Luna protected a cursed Ron and his injured sister.
Ron was very amused when Luna commentated on a Quidditch match the following year, and when she danced by herself at the wedding of his older brother Bill and Fleur Delacour. He thought highly of her bravery, but still teased her on occasion, regardless the two remained close friends in their adulthood.
Seamus Finnigan, Dean Thomas, and Neville Longbottom: his friends and roommates
In addition to Harry and Neville, Ron's room mates at Hogwarts were Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan. Although he was not as close to them as he was to Harry, Ron was nevertheless friendly with both of them. When he and Harry had a falling out over the Goblet of Fire drawing Harry's name, Ron spent a lot of time with Seamus and Dean.
Ron stood up for Harry against Seamus when he and Harry argued about Lord Voldemort's return. Also, when Dean began dating his younger sister in 1996, Ron became irritated with him, especially after catching the two snogging, though they seemed to have put the matter behind them completely by the time Ron, Harry and Hermione met Dean again in 1998.
Seamus and Dean were also members of Dumbledore's Army. Dean, like Ron, Harry and Hermione, left Hogwarts in 1997, because it was supposed that he was a Muggle-born. He was caught by a group of Snatchers, led by Fenrir Greyback, along with Ron, Harry and Hermione. They escaped from Malfoy Manor, where they had gone, and lived for a few days at Shell Cottage.
Seamus and Dean eventually fought along with Ron in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Peter Pettigrew, his once pet
Scabbers was an unusually old and scraggly-looking rat that originally belonged to Percy Weasley, but was passed down to Ron when Percy was given Hermes. At first, Ron showed little outward affection for Scabbers, as the rat was uninteresting and one of Ron's many hand-me-downs. However, Ron later demonstrated that he genuinely cared for the rat; he was so devastated when Scabbers disappeared during the 1993–1994 school year that he nearly ended his friendship with Hermione Granger, believing her cat, Crookshanks, had eaten Scabbers. Ron was clearly overjoyed when they later discovered Scabbers hiding in Rubeus Hagrid's cabin. When Sirius Black and Remus Lupin revealed that Scabbers was actually an Animagus named Peter Pettigrew, Ron refused to believe it until they forced the rat to transform back into his human form. Ron took this revelation as a personal insult, and refused to listen to Pettigrew's pleas for mercy.
In 1998, Ron, Harry, and Hermione were captured and imprisoned in the cellar of Malfoy Manor. When the house-elf Dobby came to rescue them, Peter was sent to investigate the noise. Harry and Ron ambushed Pettigrew, and Ron took his wand. Harry reminded Pettigrew of the life-debt he owed Harry when Pettigrew tried to strangle him, and Peter momentarily loosened his grip. However, the silver hand given to Peter by Voldemort turned on him instead, and, despite Harry and Ron's attempts to save him, Pettigrew was killed for showing the slightest bit of mercy. Ron subsequently gained possession of Pettigrew's wand. This could be seen as poetic justice for Pettigrew, who had deceived Ron for so long.
Rubeus Hagrid, his teacher and friend
Ron first met Rubeus Hagrid, the gamekeeper for Hogwarts, during his first year at the school in 1991. Hagrid was very fond of Harry, Ron and Hermione, regularly inviting them to his hut for tea. Though all three returned Hagrid's affections, Ron was openly incredulous of Hagrid's love of dangerous Creatures, and was furious with Hagrid after his pet Acromantula, Aragog, and Aragog's family tried to eat him and Harry. During Ron's fourth year, it was revealed to the wizarding world that Hagrid was a half-giant, and Hagrid consequently received a good deal of hate mail, which led to his self-imposed seclusion within his hut. Through the efforts of Ron, Harry, Hermione and Albus Dumbledore, Hagrid became convinced that people still loved him and wanted him around.
Ron and Hagrid also fought alongside one another in the Battle of the Seven Potters and in the Battle of Hogwarts. After the Second Wizarding War, Ron and Hagrid probably remained friends.
Remus Lupin, his former DADA professor
Ron was among the students who were very impressed by Remus Lupin's teaching when he was professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts, during Ron's third year at Hogwarts. Though Ron was initially afraid when he learned Lupin was a werewolf, he quickly realised that being a werewolf didn't change who Lupin was in human form, and the issue never came between them. In 1997, when Harry fought with Remus for attempting to temporarily leave his pregnant wife to aid Harry, Ron, and Hermione in their mission, Ron expressed his disappointment in the way Harry handled the situation, despite agreeing with the point Harry was trying to make.
Ron and Lupin fought alongside each other in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, the Battle of the Seven Potters, the Attack at the Burrow, and the Battle of Hogwarts, where Remus was murdered by Antonin Dolohov. After Remus was murdered in the Second Wizarding War, Ron remained close with Remus's son Teddy Lupin, who was also Harry Potter's godson.
Sirius Black, his best friend's godfather
Ron first learned about Sirius Black in 1993, when the latter became the first wizard to escape from Azkaban, and was believed to be planning to track down and kill Harry at Hogwarts. As it turned out, Sirius was actually after Ron's pet rat, who was actually the Animagus Peter Pettigrew in disguise. At the end of their third year, Ron, Harry and Hermione learned that Sirius was not only innocent of the crime of betraying Lily and James Potter to Lord Voldemort, but that he was, in fact, Harry's godfather. After revealing Pettigrew's true form, Sirius felt responsible for Ron's loss of "Scabbers," and gave him an owl as replacement. During their fourth year Ron along with Harry and Hermione provided food for Sirius, who was hiding in a cave outside of Hogsmeade.
During the Second Wizarding War, Ron and Sirius bonded during their time cooped up at 12 Grimmauld Place, and Ron defended Sirius against all of Hermione's critical remarks about Sirius's selfish treatment of Harry as a friend rather than a godson, as well as her belief that Sirius was trying to live vicariously through Harry, Ron, and herself.
Minerva McGonagall, his head of house and professor
Minerva McGonagall was the Transfiguration Professor and Gryffindor Head of House during Ron's time at Hogwarts. She was very strict, and regularly reprimanded Ron, Harry and Hermione for the many instances they ended up bending or outright breaking school rules. However, she was just and impartial as a disciplinarian, and always acted in the best interest of all Hogwarts students, often showing lenience and understanding where it was deserved. She clearly cared about Ron, as she cared about all of her students, and Ron fought alongside McGonagall during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts, both surviving the Second Wizarding War.
Nymphadora Tonks, his friend
Nymphadora Tonks was a young witch, a metamorphmagus, and an Auror. Ron met Tonks in 1995, when both became members of the Order of the Phoenix. Ron generally liked Tonks and found her amusing, despite at one point comparing her looks unfavourably to Fleur Delacour's. Saying that she was merely okay looking "when not doing stupid stuff to her nose and hair". He also mentioned that she was not as much of laugh anymore as she was starting to "look more and more like Moaning Myrtle".
Tonks and Ron fought alongside each other during the: Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Battle of the Astronomy Tower, Battle of the Seven Potters (where they were paired together), the Attack at the Burrow, and the Battle of Hogwarts, where Tonks was murdered by Bellatrix Lestrange. Ron was devastated by her death and after the war, he became a friend of Tonks's son, Teddy. It can also be assumed that he was around Teddy often, seeing as his best friend was Teddy's godfather.
Severus Snape, his professor
Severus Snape was the Potions Master and Head of Slytherin House during Ron's time at Hogwarts. He made no attempt to hide his preference for his own House, nor his disdain for the Gryffindor students, and showed particular dislike for both Ron and Hermione as Harry's best friends. Ron believed that Snape, who was a former Death Eater, had never truly joined their side, and that he was still working as a double agent for Voldemort. During his fifth year, Ron suggested that Snape was trying to open Harry's mind to Voldemort rather than close it during Harry's Occlumency lessons.
In 1997, Ron fought in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, after which he learned that Snape had killed Albus Dumbledore, and a few months later, during the Battle of the Seven Potters, Snape accidentally cursed off George Weasley's ear, while aiming a Sectumsempra at a Death Eater who was poised to kill Remus Lupin. Ron, like most of the Order and Hogwarts staff, viewed Snape as a cowardly, heartless murderer. However, Ron witnessed Snape's death as ordered by Lord Voldemort during the Battle of Hogwarts, and eventually learned that Snape had been working for their side all along, at great personal risk. It was likely that Ron came to appreciate Snape's unwavering bravery.
Albus Dumbledore, his headmaster
Ron was raised within the wizarding world, and knew of Albus Dumbledore, Hogwarts headmaster and probably the greatest wizard of the time, since childhood. Ron met Dumbledore when he first attended Hogwarts in 1991. Although Ron never spent much, if any, one-on-one time with Dumbledore, it was clear that Dumbledore trusted Ron, along with Hermione, and valued their individual skills. He felt Ron and Hermione could be trusted to aid Harry in his mission to destroy Voldemort's Horcruxes, the existence of which was a secret of vital importance unknown to a living a soul aside from the trio, Dumbledore, and Voldemort himself.
After Dumbledore's death, it was discovered that the Headmaster had bequeathed Ron his Deluminator. Unknown to Ron at the time he received it, the Deluminator had the magical ability to return Ron to his friends if the time came, as Dumbledore had anticipated, when Ron would part ways with Harry and Hermione during their quest. The Deluminator's function as a homing device for Ron's friends suggested that Dumbledore understood Ron well enough to know that as surely as he would struggle with the mission, he would be just as certain to want to return to his friends' sides.
In return, Ron admired Dumbledore for his extraordinary magical prowess and intelligence greatly and felt a great amount of respect for him. During Dumbledore's funeral, Ron was clearly distraught as Dumbledore's body was laid to rest. This respect clearly became greater than ever when Ron realised that Dumbledore valued him as Harry's friend enough to give him the Deluminator, showing great appreciation and gratitude for the Headmaster's trust in him. Due to his pragmatism, he is entirely unaffected by the revelation of Dumbledore's past with Gellert Grindelwald whereas even Hermione could not help but be deeply shocked by it, believing it only happened because Dumbledore was still growing up at that age and defending him from Harry when he mentioned about it.
Ron, along with Hermione and Harry, visited Dumbledore's portrait after the Battle of Hogwarts to discuss the fate of the Deathly Hallows.
Lavender Brown, his ex-girlfriend
Lavender Brown, a Gryffindor in Ron's year, developed a crush on him when they entered their sixth year. At first, Ron seemed vaguely flattered, but not particularly interested in Lavender's flirtatious behaviour. However, after becoming angry with Hermione and being taunted by Ginny over his lack of romantic experience, Ron began an exhibitionist relationship with Lavender. The couple was frequently seen snogging in public, much to the disgust of a jealous and hurt Hermione as well as Ginny, who considered him a "filthy hypocrite" because he insulted her for being caught kissing her boyfriend earlier in the year.
Lavender threw herself into the relationship almost obsessively, alarming even her best friend, Parvati Patil. Lavender called Ron by the annoying nickname of "Won-Won", pressed Harry for details of Ron's feelings for her, and gave him a necklace with the words 'my sweetheart' for Christmas. After that Christmas, Lavender tickled Ron, and was noticed by Harry. Ron found these traits irritating, and admitted to Harry that the relationship consisted of little talking and mostly snogging.
Ron and Lavender kissing or "snogging"
By his birthday, Ron was unhappy in the relationship; he feigned sleep whenever Lavender visited him in the infirmary after his poisoning and said Hermione's name in his sleep. He was spared the task of breaking up with Lavender when she became suspicious that something was going on between him and Hermione, and ended the romance. Ron was happy to see things finished, though he felt guilty for it, but Lavender was upset for some time afterwards. It is unknown how Ron reacted to Lavender's death in the Battle of Hogwarts. It can assumed that he was saddened by it, as they were once friends.
Viktor Krum, his rival
Ron was a huge fan of Viktor Krum, as he was the Seeker for the Bulgarian National Quidditch team, enthusiastic to the point of purchasing a miniature Krum figurine at the Quidditch World Cup and bringing it with him to school. However, his feelings changed markedly when Krum began seeing Hermione Granger and the two attended the Yule Ball together in 1994. Despite his jealousy, Ron asked Krum for his autograph following the end of the Triwizard Tournament, much to Krum's surprise and Hermione's amusement. During Ron's sixth year, he discovered that Hermione had "snogged" Krum in the course of their brief romance, which caused Ron's jealousy of Krum to resurge. He expressed these feelings in 1997, at Bill and Fleur's wedding, when Krum's appearance as a guest inspired Ron to whisk Hermione away to dance.
Pigwidgeon became Ron's owl in 1994. He was given to Ron by Sirius Black, as Sirius felt partially responsible for the loss of Ron's pet rat, who turned out to be the Animagus and Death Eater, Peter Pettigrew, in disguise. Initially, Ron loved him, and enjoyed having an owl of his own, but Pig, as Ron preferred to call him, turned out to be very tiny and hyperactive, and became mainly annoying to Ron (as Errol and Hermes, according to Ron) and had to be kept away from them. It can be assumed that deep down Ron still loved Pigwidgeon considering that before he found out the truth about Peter Pettigrew he still loved "Scabbers" despite complaining about his uselessness nonstop.
Crookshanks
Crookshanks was Hermione Granger's large, bandy-legged, ginger-coloured, half-Kneazle cat. Ron strongly disliked him at first, largely due to his antagonistic behaviour towards Ron's pet rat, Scabbers. In 1993, Scabbers, who was actually the Animagus, Peter Pettigrew, faked his own death for the second time after Sirius Black escaped from Azkaban. Ron initially believed Scabbers had been eaten by Crookshanks, and he nearly ended his friendship with Hermione.
When Ron discovered the truth about Scabbers, and found that Crookshanks had been helping Sirius all along, he seemed to appreciate Crookshanks as a good judge of character, and even half-jokingly asked the cat if Pigwidgeon was really an owl. When Crookshanks meowed happily, Ron actually seemed relieved. It is unknown if Ron ever saw Crookshanks after the Battle of Hogwarts, since he had been left at the Burrow during Bill and Fleur's wedding.
Cormac McLaggen, his rival
In 1996, Ron's competition for the Keeper position on the Gryffindor Quidditch team was Cormac McLaggen, a Gryffindor a year above him. Before the try-outs, Hermione overheard McLaggen insulting Ron and Ginny, and placed a Confundus Charm on him that made him miss his last save. Ron thus beat him, though McLaggen claimed that this was due to favouritism. Ron greatly disliked him, which prompted Hermione to attend Professor Slughorn's Christmas party with him to retaliate against Ron for his romance with Lavender Brown. Ron disliked McLaggen even more, and was happy when his date with Hermione did not go well, and when McLaggen did not perform well as replacement keeper while Ron was in the Hospital Wing.
Dolores Umbridge, his former DADA professor and enemy
In 1995, Dolores Umbridge, a Ministry employee, was appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. She was a sadistic, very unpleasant woman who derived great satisfaction from torturing students as punishment (most notably, forcing Harry Potter to carve the words "I must not tell lies" into the back of his own hand, using a Blood Quill). Ron, like most of the students and faculty at Hogwarts, greatly disliked her intrusive, hypocritical and often outright insulting ways, in return Umbridge disliked Ron, as he was a main offender of the rules and loyal to Harry and a member of Dumbledore's Army. She had an obsession with pure-blood status and both hated and feared people she called half-breeds, like centaurs and half-giants. She also hated Muggle-borns, and probably half-bloods, despite being half-blood herself. In the end of the year, she was attacked by a group of centaurs and eventually brought to the Hospital Wing by Albus Dumbledore. Though she attempted to abscond, Peeves the Poltergeist discovered her sneaking away, and led the students in driving her out Hogwarts.
Ron met again Umbridge in 1997, when he was disguised as Reg Cattermole, a Ministry official, and while Umbridge was in charge of trying Muggle-borns before they were sent to Azkaban. Harry stunned Umbridge during the interrogation of Mary Cattermole, when Umbridge attempted to flaunt Salazar Slytherin's Locket as proof of her relation to the Selwyn family. After Hermione retrieved the locket and replaced it with a decoy using the Geminio curse, Harry, Ron, and Hermione proceeded to help the Muggle-borns awaiting trial escape from the Ministry. After the Second Wizarding War, Umbridge herself was imprisoned in Azkaban for life.
Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington
Ron's lack of sensitivity causes him to be unpopular with the Hogwarts ghosts, namely Nearly Headless Nick and Moaning Myrtle. Ron first met Nearly Headless Nick in 1991 during his first welcoming feast. He knew Nick because he heard Fred and George talking about him. Nick requested that Ron should address him as "Sir Nicholas" instead of Nearly Headless Nick. During later feasts, Ron would annoy Nick by reminding him he was dead and how much he enjoyed food.
Ron met Moaning Myrtle in 1992, during the re-opening of the Chamber of Secrets. Myrtle was upset since Ginny had unknowingly thrown a diary at her. Ron pointed out that it couldn't hurt Myrtle since she was a ghost, and the book would go through her. Myrtle swooped down on Ron with rage and sarcastically commented that everyone should throw books at her and make a game out of it.
Lord Voldemort, a hated enemy
As Ron was raised within the wizarding world, he had grown up fearing the name of Lord Voldemort, the most dangerous Dark wizard of all time. He was afraid to say the name or even to hear it, and protested when Harry refused to refer to Voldemort as "You-Know-Who" or "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named". Ron helped Harry protect the Philosopher's Stone from Voldemort at the end of their first year, when he won a game of Wizard's chess by sacrificing himself. Ron also helped Harry get into the Chamber of Secrets and save Ron's younger sister.
Ron's fear of saying Voldemort's name ended up being justified and delaying the capture of Harry, Hermione and himself, as he managed to convince Harry and Hermione to refer to Voldemort as "You-Know-Who" around the same time saying the name was made Taboo. In 1998, Ron used Godric Gryffindor's sword to destroy Salazar Slytherin's Locket, one of Voldemort's Horcruxes. The locket tortured Ron, as a "Riddle-Harry" and a "Riddle-Hermione" appeared, eventually kissing, telling Ron that he was useless, that no woman would choose him over Harry, that his own mother will choose Harry as a son instead of him, and that she wanted a girl when she had him. Ron showed the strength of his personality in by overcoming his insecurities and stabbing the locket with Godric Gryffindor's Sword, destroying the Horcrux.
During the Battle of Hogwarts, Ron was present when Voldemort told the crowd that Harry had been killed while trying to save himself. Forgetting his fear, and breaking the Silencing Charm Voldemort had placed over the crowd, Ron shouted that Harry had defeated him. Ron also witnessed Voldemort's final duel with Harry.
Dumbledore's Army, his friends and allies
Dumbledore's Army was an organisation led by Harry Potter, in order to oppose Dolores Umbridge, and as a supplementary means of practising defensive magic. In 1995, Ron and Hermione convinced Harry to teach anyone who was interested about protective spells and counter-jinxes that had helped him survive his many encounters with Voldemort, as the purely theoretical instruction they were receiving from Umbridge was wholly inadequate. Six members of the D.A. fought in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. In addition to Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Ginny Weasley, Fred and George, Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood, Lavender Brown, Seamus Finnigan, and Dean Thomas, there were eighteen other known members.
The Gryffindor students who were members of the DA included Colin and Dennis Creevey, Parvati Patil, Lee Jordan (Fred and George Weasley's best friend) Alicia Spinnet and Katie Bell (members of the Gryffindor Quidditch team) and Angelina Johnson (captain of the Team, and Ron's future sister-in-law, after marrying George). Fred and Colin Creevey were both murdered by Death Eaters in during the Battle.
The Hufflepuff students were Hannah Abbott, Ernie Macmillan, Susan Bones, Justin Finch-Fletchley, and Zacharias Smith. Ron was friendly with all of them, except Zacharias, the only one who didn't fight in the Battle of Hogwarts.
The Ravenclaw students were Padma Patil (Parvati's twin sister), Cho Chang, Terry Boot, Anthony Goldstein, Michael Corner, and Marietta Edgecombe. Ron attended the Yule Ball with Padma, who wasn't pleased with Ron's appearance in his tattered dress robes, and Ron wasn't particularly fond of Michael Corner, who was Ginny's ex-boyfriend. They all fought together during the Battle of Hogwarts in 1998, with the exception of Marietta, who did not return to Hogwarts at any point.
The original Order of the Phoenix
The Order of the Phoenix was an organisation founded and led by Albus Dumbledore. The Order included Ron's family, Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Rubeus Hagrid, Remus Lupin, Sirius Black, Fleur Delacour, Minerva McGonagall, Nymphadora Tonks, and Severus Snape as well as several other notable members of the wizarding community.
In 1994, for Ron's fourth year at Hogwarts, Alastor "Mad Eye" Moody, an Auror famous for his great skill, vast experience, and growing paranoia, was appointed professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts. Prior to the start of the school year, on Lord Voldemort's orders, Moody was attacked and imprisoned in his own magical trunk by Barty Crouch Jnr, who impersonated Moody and took his place at Hogwarts by using Polyjuice Potion until 24 June, 1995. Ron clearly held Moody in high regard, as he looked forward to his classes and persistently hoped that Moody would tell him he would make a good Auror, as he had Harry and Hermione (albeit, it was actually Barty Crouch Jnr who suggested Harry and Hermione consider becoming Aurors). Ron met the real Mad-Eye later in 1995, at 12 Grimmauld Place, the headquarters of the Order. Ron and Moody fought alongside one another in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and in the Battle of the Seven Potters, where Mad-Eye was killed. Ron, like the other members of the Order, was shocked and devastated by the death of someone as tough and skilled as Moody.
Ron was also familiar with the "useless git" Mundungus Fletcher, an almost grudging member of the Order. Though Ron was initially amused by Mundungus, he quickly grew disgusted with Mundungus's continued general disregard for other people, or their property and safety, particularly when he abandoned Alastor Moody in the midst of the Battle of the Seven Potters. Ron met Mundungus again when he, Harry and Hermione wanted information regarding the whereabouts of Salazar Slytherin's Locket and appeared amused by Kreacher's repeated abuse of Fletcher.
When Ron, Harry and Hermione apparated into Hogsmeade, intent on sneaking into Hogwarts to find an object that had once belonged to Rowena Ravenclaw, they found themselves in a trap set by Death Eaters. They were saved by Aberforth Dumbledore, Albus Dumbledore's younger brother, and owner of the Hog's Head. They discovered that they had been saved by him once before; it was Aberforth who had sent Dobby to rescue them from the Malfoy Manor after Harry saw his eye in the remaining shard of Sirius's two-way mirror. They were later also informed by Neville that Aberforth had been supporting Neville and the other DA members remaining at Hogwarts by feeding them, passing messages using enchanted coins, and generally backing them in their resistance against Severus Snape and the Carrows.
Other Order members Ron encountered were Kingsley Shacklebolt, a skilled Auror who would later go on to become Minister for Magic and who was greatly admired by Ron, Harry, Hermione, and the Weasleys; Elphias Doge, Albus Dumbledore's friend; as well as Dedalus Diggle, Hestia Jones, Sturgis Podmore, and Emmeline Vance. Emmeline Vance was killed by Death Eaters in 1996, and Podmore was imprisoned because he attempted to get into the Department of Mysteries, under the Imperius Curse, the news of which shocked and horrified Ron.
It is likely that every surviving member of the Order (except Arabella Figg, who was a Squib and unable to fight, but might have helped in another way) fought in the Battle of Hogwarts alongside Ron, Harry, and Hermione.
Ronald is the Scottish form of the Scandinavian name Ragnvald, which was derived from the Old Norse Ragnvaldr, composed of the elements ragn, "advice", and valdr, "ruler". It is a cognate of the name Reginald, which is derived from the Germanic form of the name, Raginwald, meaning "the prince's counsellor". All these names carry the meaning of a person who acts as a trusted advisor to a person in power, much as Ron acted as a friend and confidant to Harry Potter.
In keeping with the pattern of Weasley family members taking names from Arthurian legend, "Ron" is the name of Arthur's lance in Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain. Ron is short for Rhongomyniad, which means "striker spear" in Welsh.
Bilius comes from the word "bile", as one of the four humours discussed by Ancient Greek philosophers. Yellow bile was connected to the element of fire, which is the element of Gryffindor house, and someone with an excess of it was believed to be bad-tempered, as Ron is. The English adjective "bilious" also applies to those who have an irritable temper.
Ron as he appears in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone: Illustrated Edition, illustrated by Jim Kay
Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley
Ron Weasley in 1998
Ron on  Pottermore
Quidditch Keeper Ron Weasley as he appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Ron Weasley as he appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Ron Weasley in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Ron Weasley in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
In an interview with J. K. Rowling and Mugglenet, when asked about Ron and the Deluminator she says:
"He wasn't the most skilled, or the most intelligent, but he held the trio together; his humour and his good heart were essential."
"Ron and Hermione, however, are drawn to each other because they balance each other out. Hermione's got the sensitivity and maturity that's been left out of Ron, and Ron loosens up Hermione a bit, gets her to have some fun. They love each other and they bicker a bit, but they enjoy bickering, so we shouldn't worry about it." - J. K. Rowling
Ginevra Molly "Ginny" Potter (née Weasley) (b. 11 August 1981), occasionally known as Gin by Harry Potter, was an English pure-blood witch, the only daughter of Arthur and Molly Weasley (née Prewett), and the younger sister of Bill, Charlie, Percy, the late Fred, George and Ron. She was the first female to be born into the Weasley line for several generations. She and her older brothers grew up in The Burrow on the outskirts of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon.
Ginny attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1992 to 1999, a year beneath the famous Harry Potter, and was sorted into Gryffindor House. During her first year, she developed a long-standing crush on Harry Potter and came under the influence of the memory of Tom Riddle's sixteen-year-old self, who was preserved in a diary, which forced Ginny to re-open the Chamber of Secrets, endangering the lives of many students, including her own.
Following that ordeal, Ginny grew into a confident young woman, becoming an important member of Dumbledore's Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter in her fourth year. She would later fight in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries (1996), the Battle of the Astronomy Tower (1997), and the Battle of Hogwarts (1998). She was also an accomplished Quidditch player, playing Chaser and Seeker at different times for the Gryffindor Quidditch team.
After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny became a professional Quidditch player for the Holyhead Harpies. Upon retiring from the Harpies, she became the senior Quidditch correspondent for the Daily Prophet. Ginny eventually married Harry Potter and the couple had three children; James Sirius (named after Harry's father and godfather), Albus Severus (named after Albus Dumbledore and Severus Snape), and Lily Luna Potter (named after Harry's mother and their friend Luna Lovegood). By 2020, Ginny had become the sports editor for the Daily Prophet.
Ginevra Molly Weasley was born on 11 August 1981, to Arthur and Molly Weasley (née Prewett), the first girl born into the Weasley family in a long time, and the last for that generation after her six older brothers: Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George and Ron. At that time, the wizarding community she grew up in at the height of the First Wizarding War, during which her maternal uncles, Gideon and Fabian Prewett, were murdered while fighting a group of four Death Eaters led by Antonin Dolohov. The war eventually ended for a time two months later, after Lord Voldemort's first defeat 'at the hands' of Harry Potter on 31 October 1981.
Ginny and her six older brothers grew up in The Burrow on the outskirts of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon, England. With the majority of her brothers being keen Quidditch players, Ginny had an interest in the sport, but wasn't allowed to play with them. When she was six, she began a habit of breaking into the family broom shed and taking each of their brooms out in turn. She was never caught, and it only came to light eight years later when Hermione revealed it to Fred and George.
Ginny claims to have been looking forward to attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry ever since her eldest brother started at the school. Although as she would only have been a year old at the time, it is entirely possible that she was exaggerating here. Similarly, Ginny had always been shy and clumsy around Harry Potter, such as when she had blushed and ran back to her room, and put her elbow in the butter dish.
Molly, Ginny, Ron, and Harry meet for the first time at King's Cross Station
On 1 September 1991, Ginny accompanied her mother to King's Cross Station to see off her brothers as they departed for Hogwarts. Despite being too young to attend the school, she still begged her mother to let her go with them. While saying goodbye to her brothers, she found out that Harry Potter was on the train, and tried to get her mother to let her go on the train to see him. As the train pulled out, she began to cry, despite her brothers promising to send her loads of owls and even a Hogwarts toilet seat. She ran along the platform after the train, half-laughing and half-crying, then stopped to wave them off.
When the Hogwarts Express returned to King's Cross in June 1992, Ginny was with her mother to welcome her brothers back and was again excited to see Harry, pointing him out to her mother as he came through the barrier between platforms nine and ten.
Ginny in her first year with Tom Riddle's diary
After meeting Harry Potter at King's Cross, Ginny developed feelings for him and talked about him all summer. When Harry arrived at the Burrow after being rescued from the Dursleys by Ron, Fred, and George, she became extremely shy in his presence. On their first meeting, she came down for breakfast to find him sitting at the table. Startled, she retreated back to her room and stared at Harry as he passed her bedroom on his way to Ron's. Ginny became extremely clumsy around Harry and had a habit of knocking things over when he entered a room. On the day their Hogwarts letters arrived, she blushed a deep red and knocked over a porridge bowl with a loud clatter and put her elbow in the butter dish when Harry asked her if she was starting at Hogwarts.
Ginny travelled to Diagon Alley with her family to buy her school supplies, and her excitement at finally going to Hogwarts was tempered by the fact that, due to the Weasleys' financial situation, she would have to make do with a lot of second-hand products, including her robes and books. In Flourish and Blotts, however, she became the owner of a brand new set of Gilderoy Lockhart's collected works. Harry, having been given them by Lockhart as a publicity stunt, gave them to her since he could afford a set of his own and was embarrassed by what Lockhart had done.
With this act of kindness and recognition, Ginny finally spoke in front of Harry, standing up to Draco Malfoy when he started to insult him. Draco was with his father, Lucius, and the elder Malfoy took the opportunity to insult the Weasley family for associating with the Muggle parents of Muggle-born witch Hermione Granger and — in his eyes — being a disgrace to wizards. During his tirade, he managed to slip Tom Riddle's Diary into Ginny's battered second-hand copy of A Beginner's Guide to Transfiguration.
Ginny confiding her feelings for Harry to Tom Riddle's Diary
Ginny started at Hogwarts on 1 September 1992 and was sorted into Gryffindor House, like all the Weasleys before her. She discovered Tom Riddle's diary in amongst her school things and unaware of the diary's true nature, began writing in it. To her amazement, the diary wrote back, and she started to confide in Tom Riddle's memory, writing about how her brothers teased her, how she had to come to school with second-hand robes and books, and how she thought that Harry would never like her. She poured her heart out to the diary and told Tom's memory all about Harry's story.
At least once, Ginny went down toward Rubeus Hagrid's hut, hoping to see Harry there. In confiding in the diary her deepest fears and secrets Ginny became increasingly vulnerable to Tom Riddle's memory, which began to pour a little of his own soul back into her and slowly started to influence her. By the start of October, the signs of the influence began to show on Ginny. She started to look peaky, but a spate of colds in the school covered up the true nature of her condition. Her brother Percy forced her to take Pepperup Potion to get her over it. By 31 October, the memory of Tom Riddle was able to take full control of Ginny and used her to open the Chamber of Secrets, releasing its resident Basilisk, the Serpent of Slytherin which then petrified Argus Filch's cat, Mrs Norris (whom she hung from a torch bracket) and put all the Muggle-born students in great danger. Tom Riddle also forced her to write a threatening message on the wall: 'THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN OPENED. ENEMIES OF THE HEIR, BEWARE.'
A possessed Ginny writing a message on the wall
Following the attack, Ginny seemed upset over Mrs Norris, and her brothers put it down to the fact that she was a cat-lover. She opened the Chamber of Secrets another two times, resulting in the petrification of Colin Creevey and Justin Finch-Fletchley. She became more visibly upset, and again, her brothers put it down to other causes — she sat next to Colin in Charms, and that she was worried that Ron might be expelled if he got in trouble. Fred and George attempted to cheer her up, but went about it the wrong way by leaping out at her from behind statues covered in fur or boils.
Ginny confided in the diary, however, that she thought she was going mad. She woke up with rooster feathers on her robes, and could not remember where she had been at Hallowe'en and when Colin was attacked. She started to think that she was the one attacking everyone. The missing pieces of her memory were starting to take a serious toll on her psyche and it was affecting her health beyond the point of looking peaky.
Ginny attempting to get rid of Tom Riddle's diary by flushing it down a toilet
Along with her brothers, Ginny remained at Hogwarts over Christmas, instead of going to visit her brother Bill in Egypt with her parents. She had started to become suspicious of the diary, and several weeks after Christmas attempted to get rid of it by throwing it down a toilet in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. Once free of the diary, Ginny sent Harry an anonymous Singing Valentine on 14 February 1993. He received it in front of her, as she was going into a Charms lesson, when he was accosted by the dwarf assigned to deliver it. During the delivery, Harry's bag was torn and the contents were dropped onto the floor. To Ginny's horror, she saw that Harry now had the diary. To make matters worse, Draco Malfoy implied that she had sent Harry the Singing Valentine in front of everyone.
Ginny was fearful that Harry would discover her secrets, such as her feelings for him and how she thought he would never return her affections. In addition to the fact that she might be responsible for the attacks, so she waited until the boys' dormitory was empty. After the dormitory was empty for the day she then ransacked Harry's belongings to recover the diary. Retrieving it, Ginny was once more overcome by the memory of Tom Riddle and opened the Chamber again, this time petrifying Hermione Granger and Penelope Clearwater. It is unknown how she felt about this, but it could be deduced that she most likely felt particularity upset about Hermione being petrified as she was a close friend of her brother and of her crush.
Harry with an unconscious Ginny lying in the Chamber of Secrets
Ginny tried to tell Harry and Ron what was going on, but could not get the words out, and she was interrupted by Percy. The memory of Tom Riddle was furious, as he had been planning on taking on Harry Potter himself after learning his story. Realising that Harry would come to save Ginny, he made her write a farewell on a corridor wall, then enter the Chamber of Secrets to die. She had poured so much of her life into the diary that she could not fight Tom's control of her, and the last thing she remembered as she lay down on the floor of the Chamber was Tom coming out of the diary. The memory of Tom Riddle had fed off her, gaining enough strength to become corporeal and regain the appearance of his 16 year old self. As Tom grew stronger, the life in Ginny faded away until she slipped into an unconscious state.
Ginny awake, explaining to Harry what happened
Ginny awoke in the Chamber later to find that Harry had saved her, and destroyed Riddle's diary by piercing it with a basilisk fang, and Ginny's vitality was restored to her. Tearful and scared, Ginny revealed what had happened to Harry and was sure she was going to be expelled from school. After leaving the Chamber with the aid of the phoenix, Fawkes, Ginny was reunited with her parents in McGonagall's office. Despite her fears, Dumbledore did not place the blame on her, saying that older and wiser wizards had been duped by Lord Voldemort, and he sent her to the hospital wing to recover from her ordeal with a mug of hot chocolate.
Following this traumatic experience, Ginny returned to normal and was happy and relaxed for the rest of the school term. At the end of the school year, she travelled back to King's Cross with her brothers, Harry, and Hermione on the Hogwarts Express, playing Exploding Snap. She also mentioned that at some point she had walked in on Percy and Penelope Clearwater kissing in a classroom during the year, and begged her brothers not to tease him about it.
Ginny and her family in Egypt
Ginny travelled to Egypt in the summer of 1993 with the rest of her family to visit her brother Bill after her father won seven hundred Galleons in the annual Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw. She visited various tombs, but her mother would not allow her to go in the last one because of all the mutant skeletons.
Ginny and her family stayed at the Leaky Cauldron the night before setting off to start her second year at Hogwarts, and she met Harry again. She was even more embarrassed in front of him than usual, muttering a hello but not looking at him. The next day, on Platform 9¾, she did meet his eyes as they shared a laugh over Percy's behaviour when trying to impress his girlfriend, Penelope.
On the Hogwarts Express, Ginny was separated from her brothers until the train stopped because of the Dementors. In the dark, she found her way into the compartment containing Harry, Hermione, Ron, and Professor Lupin. When the Dementors came to the compartment, Ginny was one of the worst affected by them as she had horrible experiences with Tom Riddle's diary last year. She went very pale and shook like mad, eventually sobbing and having to be comforted by Hermione.
Later in the year, after Harry fell from his broomstick in a Quidditch match during a storm, Ginny visited him in the Hospital Wing. She had made him a get well card that sang shrilly when opened and presented it to him while blushing furiously.
Ginny at the 1994 Quidditch World cup with her friends and family
In the summer of 1994, Ginny spent a lot of time with Hermione Granger, who was staying at the Burrow before and after the Quidditch World Cup. They shared Ginny's room and tent at the World Cup and solidified their growing friendship. Aware of her interest in Harry Potter, Hermione advised Ginny to relax around him more and show him what she was really like, since she could barely talk if he was in the same room as her and Harry would never get to know her like that. She even suggested that Ginny start going out with other available boys to mark time until Harry would start taking more notice and return her feelings. Although she was still shy around Harry, who was also staying at the Burrow, Ginny took Hermione's advice and was much more relaxed and spent time with him, Ron, and Hermione.
She attended the Quidditch World Cup final on 25 August with the majority of her family, as well as Harry and Hermione. During the match she was shown wearing a green shamrock hat in support of the Irish. Ginny was shaken by the appearance of Death Eaters in the aftermath of the Irish victory. During the riot Ginny's father put Fred and George in charge of her safety, while he and the elder Weasley brothers assisted the Ministry. She and the twins were separated from the trio and it was unknown where they hide while the trio was in the forest near the campsite.
Ginny attended the Yule Ball with Neville Longbottom
Ginny returned to Hogwarts, which hosted the Triwizard Tournament that year, she rooted for Harry the unexpected fourth champion and maintained a good relationship with Hermione. Ginny was the only one that Hermione confided in when Viktor Krum asked her to the Yule Ball. As a third year, Ginny was not allowed to attend the ball unless asked by an older student. Neville Longbottom asked her to go after Hermione turned him down, having already accepted Viktor, and Ginny accepted since she was friends with him. She told Ron and Harry after Ron said Ginny should go with Harry.
However, she still harboured feelings for Harry and was displeased to hear that he had asked Cho Chang to the ball. She was even more despondent when Ron suggested that Harry take her to the ball since he did not have a date. Struggling with the idea that she could have gone with Harry, she nevertheless remained loyal to her agreement with Neville and attended the ball with him. At the ball on Christmas, she met Michael Corner and started dating him at the end of the year.
Ginny sitting next to Nymphadora Tonks at 12 Grimmauld Place
With the revelation that Lord Voldemort had returned in the summer of 1995, Ginny's parents became active members of the reconstituted Order of the Phoenix. As a result, the family was relocated to the Order's headquarters at 12 Grimmauld Place that summer. Ginny stayed at the headquarters, sharing a room with Hermione, and helped her mother to clean the place to make it a suitable base of operations. She learned the truth about Sirius Black and met Nymphadora Tonks, who acted like a big sister towards her and Hermione. When Harry arrived at Number 12, Ginny was pleased to see Harry, and, due to her taking Hermione's advice and her relationship with Michael Corner, was relaxed and composed in his presence, showing none of the embarrassment and shyness towards him that she had shown during previous meetings.
Due to her age, Ginny was never allowed into Order meetings and when Sirius insisted on filling Harry in on the Order and Voldemort she was the only one banished from the meeting by her mother. However, Hermione — who was allowed to hear — told her everything anyway. When Harry was acquitted at his hearing on 12 August for using magic in front of a Muggle while under age, she was extremely pleased and sang and danced with Fred and George shouting 'He got off, he got off, he got off...!'.
Ginny casting the Reductor Curse during a D.A. meeting
Ginny returned to Hogwarts on 1 September 1995 with her brothers. During the train ride on the Hogwarts Express, Ginny introduced Harry and Neville to Luna Lovegood, a Ravenclaw in her year. With the arrival of new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher Dolores Umbridge and a theory-based course, Harry, Ron, and Hermione decided to form a study group to teach practical defence spells. She joined the group, bringing her boyfriend Michael with her and several other Ravenclaws. They all met in the Hog's Head where Ginny first demonstrated her sense of humour by mimicking Umbridge's cough. During the first official meeting of the group, she came up with the name for the group — Dumbledore's Army, which to her was a better name than the one the currently had, although with the same initials of the previous name, which Harry's then-girlfriend Cho Chang came up with.
Ginny conjuring her Patronus
During her time in the D.A, Ginny's talent for defensive magic was shown as she had swift reflexes with the Disarming Charm and considerable power with the Reductor Curse, the latter of which highly impressed Harry (much to Ginny's delight) and made her brothers jealous. Toward the end of the fall of 1995, Harry, along with Fred and George, received a lifelong Quidditch ban from Umbridge for attacking Draco Malfoy after their game against Slytherin (although their bans were lifted right after Umbridge was removed from Hogwarts). Ginny tried out for the team and became the new Seeker. Although she admitted that Harry was a better Seeker than her, and that she preferred playing as a Chaser and scoring goals.
Harry informs the Weasleys of their father's attack at the Ministry
What should have been a happy time for Ginny was marred by the attack on her father by Nagini just prior to Christmas. Along with her brothers and Harry, she was instantly sent to 12 Grimmauld Place by a portkey to await news. Relieved to find out he was all right, Ginny saw him the next day in St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries and hugged him immediately. Following the visit, she noticed that Harry started to distance himself from everyone, refusing to speak to anyone in the house.
After Hermione skipped a skiing trip with her parents to come to the house, she talked Harry out of hiding in Buckbeak's room, leading him to Ginny and Ron. Learning that Harry had convinced himself that he had been possessed by Lord Voldemort and attacked her father, Ginny railed on him for not seeking advice from the one person who had definitely been possessed by the Dark Lord. She quieted his fears by relaying her experiences to him and admitted that she had never truly gotten over it.
Ginny, Harry, Hermione, and Ron find out the truth about Neville's parents
Ginny spent Christmas at 12 Grimmauld Place and visited her father again on Christmas Day. During this visit, along with Ron and Hermione, she found out the truth about Neville Longbottom's parents, and how they had been tortured into insanity by Barty Crouch Jnr, Bellatrix, Rodolphus, and Rabastan Lestrange using the Cruciatus Curse at the end of the First Wizarding War.
Returning to Hogwarts after Christmas, Ginny played her first game for the Gryffindor House team against Hufflepuff. Despite losing the match, Ginny captured the Golden Snitch, although she downplayed the achievement by saying it was not a fast Snitch and that the opposing Seeker, Summerby, had a cold. Probably as a result of her being more confident and relaxed in front of Harry, her willingness to stand up to him, and their shared experiences of being a Seeker, Harry and Ginny grew closer and became better friends.
The group name Ginny came up with for the D.A. eventually saved Harry from expulsion at the Ministry's hands when Cho's best friend Marietta Edgecombe betrayed the group to Umbridge, since the name gave Dumbledore a way to take the fall for the D.A.'s formation by reminding Minister Cornelius Fudge of saying that the group named themselves 'Dumbledore's Army, not Potter's'. This forced Dumbledore to then escape the castle with Fawkes' help in order to evade arrest, leaving Umbridge herself to replace him as school head.
Around Easter, Ginny had had her first real one-on-one conversation with Harry in the library, during which they ate Easter eggs together. When she persuaded him to talk to Cho (who had recently broken up with him in order to defend Marietta despite her treachery), Harry confided in her that he needed to speak to Sirius, and she encouraged him to do so, even insisting that she might be able to help. It's around this time that Ginny started to speak to Harry like a friend, and Harry in turn began to enjoy her company, although Ginny bringing chocolate into the library infuriated Madam Pince to the point of violently chasing her and Harry out. Ginny then went to Fred and George, and asked them to find a way for Harry to speak with Sirius.
Ginny playing Quidditch as the Gryffindor Seeker
In May, Ginny played her second game of Quidditch for the Gryffindor team against Ravenclaw. She managed to capture the Golden Snitch, beating Cho Chang and securing the Quidditch Cup for Gryffindor. This caused Cho to have a fit, throw her broom, and cry. In the aftermath of the victory, Michael became very moody and sulked about the result. Because of his attitude, Ginny dumped him shortly after the match. She dumped him because he was a 'bad loser'. Incidentally, Michael would go on to date Cho (Harry's ex-girlfriend), as Ginny had seen him comforting her after the match she lost.
Ginny and other D.A. members being held captive by Umbridge
When Harry had a vision of Sirius being tortured in the Department of Mysteries by Voldemort on 18 June, he informed Ron and Hermione. The latter convinced Harry to check to see if Sirius was at 12 Grimmauld Place before rushing off to rescue him, and Ginny and Luna came to their assistance. With Harry and Hermione breaking into Umbridge's office, and Ron distracting her with news that Peeves was wreaking havoc, Ginny and Luna stopped people from entering the corridor leading to the office by saying that someone had flooded it with Garrotting Gas. Unfortunately for them, Umbridge saw through their ruse since she knew of Peeves's true location and ordered the Inquisitorial Squad to round them up. Ginny was captured by Cassius Warrington, and when Neville saw what was happening and tried to help, he was caught as well. Ginny was restrained by a large sixth-year girl, though she was not an obedient captive and kept trying to break free by kicking her captor in the shins.
When Umbridge threatened to use the Cruciatus Curse on Harry to make him tell her what he was doing, Hermione faked a breakdown and told a lie about a weapon that Albus Dumbledore had told them to make. She and Harry lured Umbridge into the Forbidden Forest, leaving Ginny, Ron, Luna, and Neville alone with the Inquisitorial Squad. They managed to break free using skills that they had acquired in their D.A. sessions; Ginny personally dealt with Draco Malfoy, hitting him with her preferred Bat-Bogey Hex. They then regrouped with Harry and Hermione, who had left Umbridge with a group of enraged centaurs.
Ginny, Harry, Ron, Hermione, Neville, and Luna fight off Death Eaters in the Hall of Prophecy
Convinced that Sirius was in mortal danger, Harry resolved to travel to London and rescue him. Although Harry tried to prevent Ginny, Neville, and Luna from accompanying him, Ron and Hermione eventually persuaded him otherwise. After flying Thestrals to London, they entered the Ministry of Magic using the visitor's entrance and headed for the Department of Mysteries.
In the Hall of Prophecy, they found no sign of Sirius, but Ron did find a prophecy concerning Harry and Voldemort, but pertaining only to Harry. As Harry removed it from the shelf, the group was surrounded by Death Eaters led by Lucius Malfoy and learned that Voldemort had used the connection between himself and Harry to lure him there to remove the prophecy. Ginny was sadistically threatened with torture by Bellatrix Lestrange, who wanted to use the Cruciatus Curse on her to force Harry to hand over the prophecy, thus hoping to avoid the inevitable fight that would break out.
At Harry's signal, all six D.A. members fired Reductor Curses at the shelves to distract the Death Eaters and began running. Ginny, along with Luna and Ron, were separated from the other three and were chased through various rooms by Death Eaters. In one room containing a three-dimensional representation of the solar system, one of the Death Eaters grabbed Ginny by the ankle. Luna used the Reductor Curse on a model of Pluto, causing it to explode in the Death Eater's face, but Ginny's ankle was broken in the process.
Ginny being threatened by a Death Eater in the Death Chamber
Luna managed to get Ginny and Ron (who was also disabled) to safety, but Ginny's broken ankle immobilised her and restricted her ability to help in the battle. She grew distraught when Ron came under attack by the brains, and was knocked unconscious by a Stunning Spell to the face. Luckily, the Death Eaters were focused on the prophecy and Harry was able to lead them away from Ginny and the other vulnerable students. Ginny regained consciousness by the time Harry was pursuing Bellatrix Lestrange, but he ignored her questions and raced past her.
Following the battle, Ginny recovered in the hospital wing at Hogwarts where Madam Pomfrey fixed her ankle in a trice. On the train ride back to London, Ginny revealed that she had ditched Michael, who had moved on to Cho Chang while Ginny had moved on to Dean Thomas, much to Ron's horror. She comforted Harry, who had lost his godfather, Sirius Black during the battle, when he was pushed right through the veil, the portal separating the world of the living from the world of the dead by his cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange.
Ginny with Molly and the trio in Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes
Ginny spent the summer of 1996 at The Burrow with Harry, Ron, Hermione and the other Weasleys. Despite having to put up with her brother Bill's new fiancée, Fleur Delacour (whom she nicknamed 'Phlegm' and strongly disliked), she had a good summer practising Quidditch and planning to try out for the House team as a Chaser. With the summer holidays coming to a close Ginny, the trio, and some of the other Weasleys took a trip to Diagon Alley needed to purchase school supplies. While in Fred and George's new shop, Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, in Diagon Alley, she bought her first pet, a purple Pygmy Puff that she named Arnold.
On 1 September, she met up with Dean Thomas on the Hogwarts Express, but was interrupted by fellow D.A. member Zacharias Smith, who attempted to get information out of her regarding what had happened that night in the Department of Mysteries. Tired of his continuous questioning, she cursed him with the Bat-Bogey Hex and was seen by the new Potions master, Horace Slughorn. Ginny feared detention, but Slughorn was so impressed with the hex that he invited her to take lunch with him as part of a select group of students he hoped to cultivate and induct into his Slug Club.
Ginny scoring a goal, while playing as a Chaser against Slytherin
As term started, Ginny tried out for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, of which Harry had been made the Captain. She excelled as a Chaser and was given a spot on the roster. Following one Quidditch practice, she and Dean were caught kissing by Harry and Ron. She and Ron had a blazing argument over her kissing Dean in public, but Ginny countered that Ron only saw it as being wrong because he had never kissed anyone before. The argument led to a frosty relationship between the two siblings which lasted for quite some time.
During the first Quidditch match of the season against Slytherin, Ginny scored several goals to help the team to victory. Following the match, she purposely crashed her broomstick into the commentary box because the commentator, Zacharias Smith, had been making disparaging remarks about the Gryffindor team. Her feud with Ron over his attitude towards her and Dean was worsened when, in the aftermath of the victory, he began going out with Lavender Brown, whom he often snogged in public. Ginny branded her brother a 'filthy hypocrite' for his actions, but more or less seemed to be over the row they previously shared.
Ginny arrives at Slughorn's Christmas party
Before the holiday break Ginny attended Slughorn's Christmas party with Dean Thomas. She spent Christmas at the Burrow with her family and Harry, and when Ginny returned to Hogwarts, she seemed unenthusiastic about meeting up with Dean. After Ron was accidentally poisoned on his birthday, Ginny visited him in the hospital wing, and they seemingly forgave each other. She and Harry discussed what had happened to Ron endlessly, trying to come up with an explanation for what had happened.
Ginny played in the Quidditch match against Hufflepuff, where Ron's bedridden status forced Harry to play the reserve Keeper Cormac McLaggen. During the match, McLaggen took one of the Beater's bats and pelted a Bludger directly at Harry. Harry was knocked unconscious and suffered a fractured skull. Dean, who had been playing as reserve Chaser in place of Katie Bell, laughed about the incident, causing him and Ginny to have a row. Ginny subsequently visited Harry in the hospital wing.
Ginny and Dean were going through a rocky patch, and in April they finally split up when she accused Dean of always trying to help her through the portrait door into the Gryffindor common room. In reality, Harry had been wearing his Invisibility Cloak and bumped into her while under the influence of Felix Felicis, but the incident finally brought an end to their already unstable relationship. Despite the break-up — or because of it — Ginny was still her usually bubbly self and hung around with Harry and Ron more because of Quidditch training. She also defended Harry's use of the Sectumsempra curse against Draco Malfoy, even if it had earned him a detention that forced him to miss the last Quidditch match of the year.
Harry and Ginny's spontaneous first kiss
With Harry in detention, Ginny took the role of Seeker for the Gryffindor team for the final match against Ravenclaw. They won the match and the Quidditch cup, and, during the post-match celebrations, Ginny and Harry spontaneously kissed. Ginny, who (even though she kissed Dean) had never given up on Harry, was over the moon, as was he, as he had been harbouring feelings for her all year. Ginny and Harry started dating, although their time together was limited due to Harry's weekly detentions and Ginny's O.W.L. reviews.
On 30 June, Death Eaters were let into the school by Draco Malfoy, while Dumbledore and Harry were away searching for one of Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes. Harry, who had suspected that Draco was a Death Eater for quite a while, forewarned Ron and Hermione to be vigilant and gave them the remains of his Felix Felicis potion. On Harry's orders Ginny joined Ron and Hermione in taking the potion, giving them extra luck in case they needed it. Along with Ron and Neville who had answered the D.A. call to arms, Ginny staked out the entrance to the Room of Requirement, which Harry believed that Draco was using for some unknown nefarious purpose. Later that night Harry was soon proven right.
Ginny comforting Harry after the death of Albus Dumbledore
They watched Draco emerge from the room with the Hand of Glory; when he saw them, he threw Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder, blinding them and leading Death Eaters into Hogwarts via a Vanishing Cabinet. Fighting their way clear of the darkness, they met up with Remus Lupin and other members of the Order of the Phoenix that were patrolling the school under orders from Dumbledore. In the ensuing battle, Ginny duelled with Amycus Carrow, but suffered no injuries due in part to the Felix Felicis potion. In the aftermath, Ginny was shocked to find that her brother Bill had been badly injured and permanently scarred by Fenrir Greyback. She was able to lead Harry away from Dumbledore's corpse and up to the hospital wing, where Harry broke the news that Dumbledore had been killed by Severus Snape. She seemed to accept Bill and Fleur's relationship after witnessing the love between them.
Ginny sitting next to Harry at Dumbledore's funeral (left side, sixth row)
Ginny took her O.W.L.s, despite the tragedy that had occurred at the school and spend most of her time with Harry. She attended Dumbledore's funeral, along with several others. At the funeral she sat next to Harry, Hermione, and Ron, instead of sitting with the rest of her family. After the former headmaster had been laid to rest, Harry broke up with Ginny. He feared that if Voldemort knew how he felt about her, she would become a target and he could not knowingly endanger her life. Despite saying that she knew the risks involved in being with Harry and that she didn't care, she accepted his decision, after he told her he would not be able to bear it if she died and it was his fault. She called his decision an act of stupid nobility.
Molly and Ginny relieved at the safe arrival of Harry and Hagrid
After the death of Dumbledore, and the knowledge that the protective charm over Harry was due to end soon, as he would be turning 17 and legally an adult, The Order of the Phoenix arranged to move him from the Dursleys' home to the Burrow on 27 July, via a plan that turned out to be highly dangerous. While most of her family went off to assist in the operation, which turned into a battle, Ginny stayed behind with her mother. As the team started to miss their Portkeys, Ginny started to worry for their safety and was only partially relieved to see Harry turn up at the Burrow.
She then explained that situation to Harry, stating that the other two-man teams were running late and that was why her mother was so worried. While waiting for the others to arrive she and Harry held hands, as a form of comfort and watching the sky silently. When George turned up with his ear cursed off, Ginny was shocked and helped her mother tend to him. Nothing could be done about George's missing ear, as it was cursed off by dark magic. Finally, as each member of her family returned, she allowed herself to be relaxed, but the unexpected death of 'Mad-Eye' Moody greatly sobered the occasion.
Ginny kisses Harry at the Burrow as his seventeenth birthday present
Over the next few days, Ginny interacted little with Harry because of their split, despite her feelings towards him. However, while setting the table for dinner Harry let slip that he, Ron, and Hermione were about to set off on a quest to stop Voldemort. This caused Ginny to go pale and comment that she suspected that the trio's plans were something of the manner, considering Harry's drive to defeat Voldemort. Harry then tried to convince Ginny that he had spoken in haste and was just kidding, she did not believe it.
On Harry's seventeenth birthday, Ginny confessed that she did not know what to give Harry since anything she gave him would have to be small enough for him to carry around with him. Instead, she 'kissed him like she never had before' in the hopes of giving him something to remember her by in case he met someone new on his travels, something he assured her would be unlikely to happen. Ginny felt comforted by this and viewed it as the silver lining she had been looking for. However, they were interrupted by a disapproving Ron, with Hermione in tow. As Harry exited her bedroom it was mentioned that Ginny might have for once finally succumb to tears.
Ginny talking to Ron at Bill and Fleur's wedding
On 1 August Ginny served as a bridesmaid at Bill and Fleur's wedding, along with Gabrielle Delacour. When Gabrielle batted her eyelashes at Harry, Ginny coughed loudly to indicate her annoyance. She wore a golden dress and as the ceremony began, her Auntie Muriel remarked in a carrying whisper that her dress was far too low cut. Ginny responded to this by turning around and winking at Harry. During the reception, she danced with Luna Lovegood, Lee Jordan, and others. Harry (disguised as a member of the Weasley family) jealously warned Viktor Krum off of speaking with her, when he remarked on Ginny's attractiveness. He warned him that she had a big and jealous boyfriend.
In the middle of the celebration, the guests were warned by Kingsley Shacklebolt's Patronus that the Ministry of Magic had fallen, that Rufus Scrimgeour was dead, and that the Death Eaters were coming. As the Death Eaters stormed the wedding, Hermione apparated herself, Harry, and Ron away from the chaos to begin their Horcrux quest. Ginny was seen defending herself against a Death Eater and was unable to say goodbye to Harry and the two did not see each other again for almost a year. The Weasley family was questioned, but none of them were harmed.
Ginny and others, Death Eaters storm the Hogwarts Express in search of Harry Potter
As part of the new Ministry's regime, Hogwarts attendance became mandatory and Muggle-borns were being rounded up. Ginny was present on the Hogwarts Express on 1 September 1997 when it was raided by three Death Eaters in search of Harry Potter. Once at school, Ginny joined up with Neville Longbottom and Luna Lovegood to restart the D.A. and defy Snape's regime.
They openly defied authority and snuck out at night painting graffiti on the walls of the corridors — 'Dumbledore's Army, still recruiting'. On one occasion, they attempted to steal Godric Gryffindor's Sword from Snape's office because they had knowledge that Harry needed it, but were caught and punished. Ginny served detention with Hagrid in the Forbidden Forest and was banned from all trips to Hogsmeade. Ginny and Neville were left to lead the D.A. without Luna after she was abducted by Death Eaters over the Christmas holidays.
During the Easter holidays, Ginny was at the Burrow when the Weasleys were forced into hiding at Aunt Muriel's after Ron's accompaniment of Harry and Hermione was discovered by the Death Eaters.
When Harry, Hermione, and Ron returned to Hogwarts on 1 May 1998 in search of a Horcrux, they were met by Neville and the remnants of Dumbledore's Army that had stood up to Snape and the Carrows. Acting on a promise to Ginny, Neville sent word to her that Harry was at the school. Ginny arrived with her brothers, Lee Jordan, and Cho Chang. They arrived on the understanding that a battle was about to be fought. She was incredibly relieved to see the trio, particularly Harry and expressed her displeasure at Cho's lingering feelings for him. Cho's eagerness to escort Harry to Ravenclaw Tower irritated her and in turn insisted that her friend Luna Lovegood do it instead.
Ginny and the other D.A. members preparing to blow up the covered bridge
As more members of Dumbledore's Army and the Order of the Phoenix arrived for battle, Mr and Mrs Weasley forbade their daughter to take part in the fighting, since she was underage. Ginny furiously argued against it, as it was hypocritical, since Harry was much younger than her when he faced Voldemort all the previous times. Also, she did not want to leave when her whole family and Harry would be fighting and wait at home for news. Remus Lupin offered a compromise: Ginny would stay in the Room of Requirement so as to be on the scene, but would not involve herself in the fighting. Although she did not like it, she grudgingly agreed. She proceeded to stay in the room.
Ginny mourning with her family during the one-hour armistice
On 2 May during the battle, Harry needed the Room of Requirement to change form into the Room of Hidden Things, in order to retrieve one of Voldemort's Horcruxes, Ravenclaw's Diadem. He asked Ginny to leave the room, on the proviso that she would re-enter it once he had completed his task, not believing that she would. Freed of her sanctuary Ginny joined the battle with a flourish. She and Nymphadora Tonks were later seen by Harry firing well aimed jinxes from a high-up window into the crowd of fighters below.
After the initial fighting Lord Voldemort called a temporary truce to allow the combatants to retrieve their dead, and for Harry to give himself up to avoid further killing. Ginny was shocked and heartbroken by the death of her brother Fred, and was comforted by Hermione. She later assisted in the recovery of the wounded outside the castle. When Harry passed her on his way to face Voldemort in the Forbidden Forest under the Invisibility Cloak, she was comforting an injured girl. Harry thought she might have sensed his presence as he walked away, but the two had no contact, as Harry did not want anyone to try and stop him.
Ginny is spared death at the hands of Bellatrix Lestrange by mere inches
When the seemingly lifeless body of Harry was presented to the defenders of Hogwarts by Voldemort, Ginny let out a terrible scream of anger, grief and denial that was terrible to hear. However, his apparent death spurred the defenders on, and Neville took up the Sword of Gryffindor and beheaded Nagini. With the battle restarted Ginny, Luna, and Hermione duelled Bellatrix Lestrange, the last Death Eater at that point still standing. Bellatrix was more than a match for the three, however, and fired a Killing Curse that missed Ginny by an inch. Witnessed by both her mother and Harry, the action spurred both of them to charge the Death Eater. Molly got there first and after a fantastically vicious duel, Bellatrix was killed by Molly.
Ginny and the other defenders of Hogwarts witness Harry Potter's final defeat of Voldemort
Ginny witnessed Harry's final defeat of Lord Voldemort, thus ending the Second Wizarding War. She, Ron, and Hermione were some of the first ones to run and hug him. She sat with her head on her mother's shoulder during the victory celebrations in the Great Hall. It can be assumed that she and Harry caught up with each other at a later date.
After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny and Harry rekindled their passionate romance. For several years, Ginny was part of the Quidditch team, the Holyhead Harpies. At some point, she and Harry were married and her last name became Potter. She eventually retired and the couple had a family. She gave birth to three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus, and Lily Luna. Ginny later became the senior Quidditch Correspondent for the Daily Prophet.
A 36 year old Ginny Potter with her family in 2017
In her capacity as Quidditch Correspondent, Ginny attended the 2014 Quidditch World Cup in the Patagonian Desert. While here, she wrote several articles for the Daily Prophet using her married name, Ginny Potter. Her family joined her to watch the finals of the Cup in July. Ginny covered the outcome of the Brazil vs Bulgaria match live along with Rita Skeeter. The latter while in the journalists' enclosure repeatedly made corrections to Ginny's reports. This continued until shortly after the match ended, Rita remarked that her husband Harry Potter was 'publicity-hungry' — just as Ginny was approaching. That last remark sailed a bit too close to home and Rita was taken 'unaccountably ill' with what some called 'a jinx to the solar plexus'.
On 1 September, 2017, Harry and Ginny escorted their children James and Albus to the Hogwarts Express, where Albus would begin his first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Harry's awoken from a nightmare after his scar pains him for the first time in many years
By 2020, Ginny was the sports editor for the Daily Prophet, while her husband was promoted to Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. By this time all three of the couple's children were attending Hogwarts. In the same year, she joined Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Draco Malfoy going back in time to save Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy and thwart Delphini's evil plans.
In the 21st century, Ginny taught the Bat-Bogey Hex to members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force who pursued an Auror profession, in order to help address the results of the Calamity. In addition, as a Quidditch star, Ginny instructed them on body control techniques upon falling off a broom, which they applied to decrease the amount of damage they can take.
In the spring of 2021, the Unforgivable threatened Harry and Hermione after the two began wrenching control of Calamity surges away from the cabal. The two feared that their children would be targeted, but Harry insisted on continuing to fight against the Unforgivable. Harry redirected a Calamity surge and controlled it using memories of the Marauders. By April, Ginny had been attacked and Ronald had been abducted.
Ginny in her sixth year, age 16
Ginny was described as being an extremely pretty girl, who had the typical Weasley family traits: flaming red hair (which she wore in a long mane) and a freckled complexion. She was of light skin, a very petite stature, and bright brown eyes like her mother. When blushed, Ginny would go a shade of red that matched her hair. When in a highly emotional state, she was known to acquire a 'hard, blazing look'.
It was stated that due to her prettiness, Ginny was perfectly capable of attracting a certain amount of attention from boys. In 1996, Pansy Parkinson stated that 'a lot of boys like her' and that even Blaise Zabini found her 'good-looking', with the additional observation that he was very hard to please when it came to the physical appearance of women. Though Blaise immediately objected to this accusation, it could still count as a testament of sorts to Ginny's beauty. Viktor Krum also stated that she was very pretty during Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding in 1997.
Ginny's shyness around Harry Potter, whom she has feelings for
Ginny was a forceful, independent girl who often knew her own mind. She had an energetic, lively personality. Ginny also was known to be quick-witted, funny, and could often make others laugh even when they were feeling down. However, when she was young and in love with Harry in the early years of their friendship, she became shy and withdrawn in his presence. On the advice of their friend Hermione, she overcame it. She relaxed and reasserted her usual self, which was when he finally started noticing her. One of the traits he was attracted to was that Ginny rarely got weepy.
Ginny was popular during their time at Hogwarts, and was fancied by numerous boys. Her brothers: Fred, George, and Ron, often thought that she was too popular for her own good. However, Ginny was good at lying and capable of being opaque when necessary. While staying at 12 Grimmauld Place, she was taught by Nymphadora Tonks how to check if a door had been imperturbed by flicking dungbombs at it and watching them bounce away as if hitting an invisible wall. When asked by her mother who was responsible, she blamed it on Crookshanks, even though her hands were filthy at the time.
Ginny standing up to Draco Malfoy in Harry Potter's defence
Growing up with six older brothers toughened her up. Ginny was not afraid to stand up to anybody, friends and foes alike. Notably, she stood up to Draco Malfoy on their first meeting in Flourish and Blotts when he insulted Harry in 1992. She even stood up to Hermione in defence of Harry's use of the Sectumsempra curse. Furthermore, Ginny could be harsh towards those whom she disliked. For instance, she made fun of Fleur Delacour behind her back when she first became engaged to Bill. She also hexed and crashed into Zacharias Smith when he irritated and insulted her on two separate occasions during her fifth year.
Ginny was notably difficult to intimidate or frighten, as seen during her moments of standing up to Harry during his moments of rage and anger. This is particularly impressive given that Harry's rages were capable of terrifying even his best friends Ron and Hermione, who were both incredibly courageous individuals. Her courage enabled her to take part in a three-way duel alongside Luna and Hermione against the powerful and insane Bellatrix Lestrange.
Ginny was an animal lover, especially fond of cats. When Mrs Norris was petrified in her first year at Hogwarts, her brothers put her shock down to this fact, not knowing that Ginny was scared because she couldn't remember what she was doing at the time and feared that she was responsible. She named Ron's owl 'Pigwidgeon', and was known to be able to lure Crookshanks out of hiding to play with her when she wanted. In her fifth year, she finally got her own pet, a purple Pygmy Puff from Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes that she named Arnold.
Ginny's corporeal horse Patronus, which she was able to conjure at age fourteen
Ginny was a very powerful and talented witch. She was naturally talented at Defence Against the Dark Arts, a gifted flyer, and a skilled Quidditch player. At the age of fourteen, she was able to conjure a corporeal horse Patronus. This was an impressive feat, as the Patronus Charm was very advanced magic and proof of superior magical ability.
Ginny casting Reducto during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries
Ginny demonstrating her flying skills
Ginny's wand
The Weasley family
Ginny's relationship with her family was a good one, having been raised in a loving environment. She would often comfort them (especially her mother) in times of need. The only and long-waited daughter in the family, she had to deal with an over-protective mother, who tried to prevent Ginny from war meetings and in the Battle of Hogwarts, despite her previous displays of power and skill fighting alongside Dumbledore's Army at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. Nevertheless, she often helped her mother at housework and in tending wounded at hard times.
Bill, her oldest brother
Ginny appeared to worship her brother Bill, defending his choice of earring and hairstyle to their mother, and initially feeling that he could do a lot better than Fleur Delacour, whom she mockingly called 'Phlegm'. She was in shock but helped to take care of Bill when he was permanently scarred by Fenrir Greyback.
Ginny got on well with Charlie, but found Percy to be a little overbearing and stuffy. She caught him kissing his girlfriend, Penelope Clearwater, during her first year at Hogwarts, and proceeded to tell her other brothers about it after her recovery from possession by Tom Marvolo Riddle's memory. Following Percy's decision to turn his back on his family over their support of Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter instead of the Ministry, Ginny was furious with him and even threw mashed parsnips at him when he came to the Burrow at Christmas in 1996. .
Ginny with Fred, George, and Ron
Percy tried to be a role model for Ginny and Ron, but the two youngest siblings took after Fred and George, the fun-loving twins. In temperament, she resembled the twins, Fred and George, and, like them, often teased Ron, who was closest to her in age. Some of Ginny's brothers had difficulty accepting that their little sister was popular with the opposite gender; Ginny and Ron had a particularly nasty row after Ron caught her snogging Dean Thomas, though they eventually made up.
Ginny has something of a love-hate relationship with Ron, while she loves him as a brother very much and cares deeply for him, their fights are usually quite ferocious. She had no problem telling Ron off when she believed his behaviour was unreasonable and no issues with embarrassing him in public, as when she openly mocked him for his crush on Fleur and even tripped him in front of her. In 1994, Ginny comforted Ron when he humiliated himself by asking Fleur Delacour to attend the Yule Ball with him, while still managing to find the situation very funny. In 1996 she and Ron had an vicious fight about Ginny kissing her boyfriend in public, it went as far as both siblings using wands and reducing Ginny to tears, something she hardly resorted to. Ron fired a hex right at Ginny but missed and if Harry had not interfered, Ginny would have retaliated.
Ginny had a humourous side and makes many jokes to keep people's spirits up very much like Fred and George; however, her relationship with them was not perfect. She got angry with them for questioning her on her dating life and while they respected her relationship with Harry, they were not above finding ways to tease them about it. She was heartbroken by the death of her brother Fred during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Harry Potter, husband, father of her children, and the love of her life
Simply put, Harry Potter was the love of Ginny's life. At age ten, she only briefly made his acquaintance when he boarded the Hogwarts Express with her brother Ron. She developed a crush on him nonetheless when he visited the Burrow. Shy and clumsy around him, Ginny confided her feelings in Tom Riddle's Diary. Her outpouring of emotions enabled Riddle's memory to take control of her. Harry eventually saved her life in the Chamber of Secrets by slaying Salazar Slytherin's Basilisk with Godric Gryffindor's Sword and destroying the diary with one of the serpent's fangs. Harry saving her life served to make her more withdrawn when in his presence, barely able to speak in front of him. She even sent him a singing card on Valentine's Day.
Meanwhile, Harry was friendly toward Ginny, but did not return her romantic feelings. When Ginny was in third year Ron suggested that Harry take her to the Yule Ball, but as it turned out she already had a date. Harry, given his purely platonic interest in Ginny at the time, was not upset by this. However, Ginny was 'extremely miserable' and left the common room with her head bowed, upset at the knowledge that she could have gone to the ball with her long-time crush. Ginny sought advice from Hermione Granger, who suggested that she relax in front of Harry, be true to herself, and possibly even date other boys. Taking this advice, Ginny dated both Michael Corner and Dean Thomas in her fourth and fifth years. Even though she dated other boys, Ginny never completely gave up on the hope that Harry would reciprocate her affections.
Ginny would often defend Harry whenever she felt it was needed, such as; in 1992 when she stood up to Draco Malfoy and fiercely told him 'to leave [Harry] alone'. She also told off Blaise Zabini in 1996 when he insulted Harry and even stood up to Hermione, her close personal friend in defence of his use of the Sectumsempra curse on Malfoy. In 1997 she told off her then boyfriend Dean Thomas for laughing at the fact that Harry was injured by Cormac McLaggen during a Quidditch match. On 11 July 2014, Rita Skeeter remarked that Harry was 'publicity-hungry' just as Ginny was approaching, and was subsequently taken 'unaccountably ill' with what some called 'a jinx to the solar plexus'. Ginny was also somewhat possessive of Harry. She was visibly displeased with the attention Gabrielle Delacour paid him, and spoke up when Harry's ex-girlfriend, Cho Chang, volunteered to take Harry to see Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem, insisting that Luna Lovegood take Harry instead.
Ginny gives Harry his seventeenth birthday present
In Ginny's fifth year, Harry started to fall in love with her as well. His feelings had presumably been developing since the previous year. She had reasserted herself as a vibrant, witty, and independent young woman, rather than an awkward and shy little girl. They had a lot in common — both played Quidditch, both had suffered at the hands of Lord Voldemort, and both showed great strength in defensive and offensive magic. Both have also fought alongside one another on a number of occasions. In the beginning of the year, Harry was slightly disappointed when, after a summer together, he remembered that Ginny did not normally hang around the trio at school. However, he did not realise the scope of his feelings for her until he and Ron ran into Ginny and Dean kissing. After witnessing them kissing, he frequently hoped that Dean and Ginny would break up.
By the end of her fifth year, Ginny and Harry began dating after spontaneously kissing in the aftermath of Gryffindor winning the Quidditch Cup. They broke up shortly thereafter, as Harry realised that if they continued dating openly, Voldemort would seek to use her to get to him, as he had done previously. He simply could not bring himself to endanger her life while he sought a way to destroy Voldemort. Calling the break up an 'act of nobility', Ginny accepted his decision, but always held onto the hope that he would return to her. In spite of the break-up, their feelings for each other remained as strong as ever. On Harry's seventeenth birthday, Ginny 'kissed him as she had never kissed him before,' though they were interrupted by Ron, with Hermione in tow. Ron discouraged Harry from 'getting [Ginny's] hopes up,' mentioning that his sister was 'really cut up' when Harry attempted to end their relationship. Hermione, on the other hand, seemed to be more sympathetic toward Harry and Ginny's actions.
Harry and Ginny expressing their love for each other during the Battle of Hogwarts
While hunting for Horcruxes, Harry would stare at her dot on the Marauder's Map for hours, hoping that she could somehow sense that he was watching over her. At school, Ginny participated in and helped lead an underground rebellion, during which she, Neville, and Luna even attempted to steal Godric Gryffindor's Sword from the Headmaster's office. They had heard that it was left to Harry in Dumbledore's will, and guessed that he needed it. Harry and Ginny next saw each other shortly before the Battle of Hogwarts.
When the battle began, Harry wanted Ginny to stay out of the fighting, but was forced to ask her to leave the safety of the Room of Requirement when he, Hermione, and Ron searched it for Ravenclaw's Diadem. As Harry prepared to be killed by Voldemort, he thought of Ginny, 'her blazing looks, and the feel of her lips on his.' When it seemed that Harry had been murdered by Voldemort, Ginny was beyond heartbroken and screamed louder than anyone. The supposed death of her one love was enough to drive Ginny to attack the incredibly powerful Bellatrix Lestrange alongside Luna and Hermione. When the battle was over she was one of the first ones that rushed to hug Harry.
The 40-year-old Harry and 39-year-old Ginny's continuing love for one another
Ginny and Harry rekindled their romance in the aftermath of the Second Wizarding War and were eventually married. The union produced three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus, and Lily Luna. All three of the couple's children were named in honour of family members, friends, and allies (most of whom they are named after are deceased). Their marriage is shown to be mature and understanding, Harry also affectionately calls Ginny 'Gin', rather than her full name.
It is also revealed that after the events in the Chamber of Secrets, people shut Ginny out of their lives, but Harry came to her and played a game of Exploding Snap. Ginny claims that she also felt specific love from Harry since that day and that his love for her always made her feel stronger. The two made Ginny's brother Ron and his wife Hermione the godparents to their eldest son, and Neville Longbottom the godfather to their second son. They also have several nieces and nephews.
Despite their affectionate and passionate marriage, Ginny retained her ability to put Harry in his place over his actions and behaviours, such as when she forbade him from entering Albus's room during his disappearance.
Ginny's children (left to right): Lily Luna, James Sirius, and Albus Severus
After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny had three children with Harry; two sons named James Sirius and Albus Severus, and a daughter named Lily Luna.
Lily looked like her mother and was jealous of her brothers, who were leaving for Hogwarts, exactly as her mother had been in 1991. Ginny comforted Albus (who physically resembled his father) when he was nervous about the possibility of being sorted into Slytherin house, and scolded James for teasing his brother. After James interrupted his cousin Victoire while she was kissing Teddy Lupin, Ginny noted how similar he was to Ron.
As Ginny had five brothers who survived the Second Wizarding War, four of whom married at some point, she had quite a few nieces and nephews by 2017. Ginny's own children seemed closest to Ron and Hermione's children, whose son Hugo was the same age as Lily, and their daughter Rose was the same age as Albus.
Bill and Fleur's children were Victoire, Dominique, and Louis; Percy and his wife, Audrey, had Molly (named after her paternal grandmother) and Lucy; George married Angelina Johnson and named their son Fred after George's late twin brother, while their daughter was called Roxanne. When Ginny's son, James, discovered Victoire kissing Teddy Lupin at King's Cross Station, he proceeded to interrupt them and then run back to his family to triumphantly announce what he'd seen, prompting Ginny to compare him to his Uncle Ron.
Hermione Granger, a good friend and eventual sister-in-law
Hermione Granger was one of Ginny's best female friends and her confidante. Ginny was a year below Hermione in Hogwarts, and they had become close by Ginny's second year; Hermione comforted Ginny that year when the presence of Dementors upset her (Ginny was more affected than most others due to her possession by Voldemort the previous year). Hermione stayed in Ginny's room during her frequent visits to the Burrow during summer vacations. Ginny was the only one that Hermione confided in when Viktor Krum asked her to the Yule Ball, and the only one who knew that she had kissed him at least once. Ginny also told Hermione about her teaching herself how to fly and about her relationship with Michael Corner before her family and most others were aware of either.
Hermione gave Ginny advice on how to deal with her feelings for Harry — advice that would lead to her going out with him and their eventual marriage. In the summer of 1996, when Hermione was staying at the Burrow, Ginny and Hermione openly disliked Fleur Delacour and criticised her together. Ginny appeared to be disgusted with her brother Ron Weasley, Hermione's love interest, when, after a fight with Ginny, Ron began dating Lavender Brown. However, Ginny was not afraid to stand up to Hermione when she felt she was wrong, for example when Hermione scolded Harry Potter for using the Sectumsempra spell.
The two became sisters-in-law upon Hermione's marriage to Ron, and Hermione is the godmother of Ginny's oldest child. Ginny also had a niece, Rose Weasley and a nephew, Hugo Weasley, through Hermione's marriage to Ron.
Fleur Delacour, her sister-in-law
Ginny did not care much for Fleur Delacour when she first arrived at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry for the Triwizard Tournament in 1994. She found Fleur humourless and irritating, as she was given to complaining loudly about what she perceived as Hogwarts' many faults. Fleur often compared the school unfavourably to Beauxbatons Academy of Magic. Ginny teased Ron for his schoolboy crush on her. She also disapproved of Fleur's engagement to her eldest brother Bill, whom Ginny looked up to.
Much to Ginny's displeasure, Bill sent Fleur to live with the Weasley family for a few days. During that time Ginny took to mockingly referring to Fleur as 'Phlegm,' and complained about Fleur's tendency to patronise her. However, when Bill became permanently disfigured by Fenrir Greyback and Fleur indignantly defended her husband's bravery, Ginny began to recognise Fleur's admirable qualities. The two eventually got along well, and Ginny even became a bridesmaid for her wedding.
After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny had two nieces and a nephew through Fleur's marriage to Bill.
Neville Longbottom, a good friend
Neville asked Ginny to the Yule Ball after he was turned down by Hermione, who had already agreed to go with Viktor Krum, and the two attended together as friends. When Ron suggested that she go to the ball with Harry, who had yet to find a date, she was disappointed at having missed a chance to go with him, but remained faithful to her agreement with Neville. Ginny defended Neville when others laughed at him, and told him not to put himself down when he described himself as 'nobody.' She was also quite horrified when she heard that Neville's parents, Alice and Frank Longbottom, had been tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange and become permanent residents of St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries.
Ginny was among the friends who likely contributed to Neville gradually gaining confidence and courage, and, along with Luna Lovegood, the two of them maintained the strongest support of Dumbledore's Army throughout the Second Wizarding War. She and Harry remained close friends with Neville in their later years, as Ginny asked her son, James Sirius, to 'give Neville their love' when Neville taught James Herbology at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Luna Lovegood, a close friend
Ginny was friendly with Luna Lovegood, a Ravenclaw student in her year, although the two did not grow close until they were both members of Dumbledore's Army in their fourth year. Ginny referred to Luna as 'Loony Lovegood' just before introducing her to Harry and Neville in 1995, but soon stood up to those who ridiculed Luna. In return, Luna genuinely appreciated Ginny's friendship; she once mentioned how much she liked Ginny while commentating on a Gryffindor-Hufflepuff Quidditch match in which Ginny was playing Chaser.
Ginny was also one of the five portraits — along with Harry, Ron, Hermione , and Neville — that Luna painted and hung from her bedroom ceiling, with the message 'friends' joining them together in gold writing. Luna may be one of Ginny's best female friends (along with Hermione), as Ginny was only seen with these girls during her school years. Ginny later gave her daughter Lily the middle name 'Luna', implying that the two remained very close well into adulthood.
Nymphadora Tonks, her friend
Ginny met Nymphadora Tonks in the summer of 1995 through the Order of the Phoenix, and she and Hermione immediately struck up a friendship with the young Auror. Ginny appreciated that Tonks, although an adult, was interested in having fun. She taught Ginny how to check if a door had an Imperturbable Charm on it by flicking Dungbombs at it. She also entertained Ginny and Hermione by displaying her Metamorphmagus abilities, usually at the dinner table.
In 1996, Ginny hoped her brother, Bill, would choose Tonks over Fleur Delacour — an idea Ron seemed to find laughable. After Tonks was murdered by her own aunt Bellatrix Lestrange during the Battle of Hogwarts, Ginny duelled Bellatrix, along with Hermione and Luna, although it is unknown if Ginny knew that it was Bellatrix who had murdered Tonks. After the Second Wizarding War, Ginny and her children were very close to Teddy, the son of Tonks and Remus.
Sirius Black, her friend and husband's godfather
Though Ginny first learned of Sirius in 1993 as an Azkaban escapee convicted of killing 12 muggles, she was soon made aware of his innocence through her connections to the Order of the Phoenix and his godson, Harry. She and Sirius grew closer during their mutual time spent at the Order's headquarters, and she later told Harry that she cared about Sirius as much as he did, insisting on accompanying Harry to the Ministry of Magic, where they believed Sirius was being held and tortured by Voldemort. When Sirius and four other members of the Order arrived at the Ministry to rescue Ginny and her friends, who had walked into a trap and been attacked by Death Eaters, Sirius was murdered by his cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange.
Harry and Ginny were both horribly saddened by Sirius's death, and later duelled Bellatrix in the Great Hall during the Battle of Hogwarts. Ginny married Sirius's godson later and she and Harry gave their eldest son James the middle name 'Sirius' in honour of him.
Dumbledore's Army, her friends and allies
Dumbledore's Army was an organisation founded by Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Ron Weasley in 1995, and led and taught by Harry Potter to oppose Dolores Umbridge, as well as offer students a place to learn and practise defensive magic. Ginny was one of the first to join, and the one who came up with calling the organisation 'Dumbledore's Army,' based on Cornelius Fudge's paranoid fears of Dumbledore mobilising Hogwarts students in a coup against the Ministry. She was also partially responsible for bringing several of its Ravenclaw members into the fold, as her then-boyfriend Michael Corner brought his friends Terry Boot and Anthony Goldstein with him to the first meeting.
Ginny was on good terms with most of the D.A., making them laugh with her highly accurate impression of Umbridge's signature cough and generally proving to be a skilled duellist; the major exceptions to this would have been Marietta Edgecombe, who betrayed the DA to Umbridge, and Zacharias Smith, whom Ginny once purposely crashed into after a Quidditch match, and who deserted the DA prior to the Battle of Hogwarts. Ginny also showed some wariness of Harry's ex-girlfriend, Cho Chang, when Cho wanted to take Harry to see Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem, insisting Luna take him instead. Ginny convinced her then boyfriend, Michael Corner, and his friends to join, and the DA may have been where Ginny first became friendly with Dean Thomas, whom she would date the next year.
Ginny, along with Neville and Luna, co-led the DA in opposition to Alecto and Amycus Carrow, during the 1997–1998 school year, writing slogans on walls and at one point attempting to steal the Sword of Gryffindor from Headmaster Snape's office.
Cho Chang, her husband's ex-girlfriend
Ginny always held an amount of jealousy toward Cho, as Cho was Harry's first crush, girlfriend, and shared with Harry his first kiss. Despite this however, Ginny was considerate enough of her that after Harry and Cho had broken up, she eventually advised Harry that things could be mended between them if he reached out to Cho but then was interrupted by Harry clarifying that he actually wished to talk to his godfather Sirius, making this advice null and void.
When Cho offered to take Harry to the Ravenclaw common room so he could see the statue of Rowena Ravenclaw and her diadem briefly before the Battle of Hogwarts, Ginny cut across her and said that Luna would take Harry to the common room instead, implying that she still felt somewhat threatened by Cho and her still present crush on Harry.
Dean Thomas, her ex-boyfriend
Ginny started dating Dean Thomas at the end of her fourth year. Ginny's brother and Dean's roommate Ron disapproved of the romance, as demonstrated by his furious reaction to stumbling upon the couple kissing passionately in a deserted hallway. They appeared to be very close at first, but, according to Ginny's friend Hermione Granger, things began to get rocky as Ginny became displeased with Dean for what she perceived as over-protectiveness, as Dean constantly tried to assist her in everything.
Ginny's enthusiasm about the relationship seemed to ebb by Christmas of 1996, as she did not seem terribly eager to see Dean upon her return to Hogwarts. The couple also began to row over little things, like Dean's constant attempts to help Ginny through the portrait hole into the Gryffindor common room, and they fought after Dean and Seamus laughed when Harry suffered a fractured skull courtesy of Cormac McLaggen.
Dean and Ginny on a date at the Three Broomsticks
Harry, under the influence of Felix Felicis, actually ignited the minor argument that led to their breakup when he accidentally brushed past Ginny climbing through the portrait hole; as Harry was wearing his Invisibility Cloak, Ginny thought Dean was once again attempting to help her, and snapped at him. Ginny clearly got over Dean soon after they broke up, as she began dating Harry soon after and admitted to him that she had never really given up on Harry. Dean took the break up much harder; he broke the glass he was holding upon witnessing Ginny and Harry's first kiss.
Michael Corner, her ex-boyfriend
Ginny and Michael Corner met at the Yule Ball in 1994, and began dating at the end of the school year, she used the relationship as an attempt to 'move on' from Harry Potter. In 1995, she brought him and some of his friends along to the first meeting of what would become Dumbledore's Army. When the two duelled during meetings, Michael did not hit Ginny with anything, possibly because she was his girlfriend. When Michael drew unnecessary attention to the D.A. at one point, Ginny called him a 'fool', though not to his face.
Ginny ended the relationship on the basis of Michael being a 'bad loser,' following Michael's poor reaction to Gryffindor beating Ravenclaw in a Quidditch match. Michael went on to date Cho Chang, who, like Ginny, also had a romance with Harry Potter.
Remus Lupin, her former DADA professor and friend
Remus Lupin was Ginny's Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher during her second year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Lupin comforted Ginny after her first encounter with Dementors by giving her a piece of chocolate, and she likely believed, along with many other Hogwarts students, that he made an excellent teacher. Ginny and Remus met again in 1995, at 12 Grimmauld Place, and several times after that, as Remus was a member of the Order of the Phoenix and good friends with Ginny's parents. Ginny was thrilled when he married Nymphadora Tonks, and remained close with their son, Teddy, well after Tonks and Remus were murdered during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Ginny first met Rubeus Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper in 1992, during her first year at Hogwarts. Ginny seemed to be friendly with Hagrid, as they were both friends of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. At one point, Hagrid told Harry that he saw Ginny near his hut; he supposed that Ginny hoped to see Harry, and teased Harry for it. After the Second Wizarding War, Hagrid appeared to be friendly with Albus Potter, the youngest son of Ginny and Harry.
Albus Dumbledore, her former Headmaster
Ginny, like many people, thought Albus Dumbledore was the greatest wizard of all time. Ginny met Dumbledore in 1992, during her first year at Hogwarts, where Dumbledore was Headmaster. Dumbledore comforted and reassured Ginny after she was possessed by a fragment of Voldemort's soul and manipulated into opening the Chamber of Secrets during the 1992–1993 school year. Ginny was one of the first people to learn about Dumbledore's death, and the only one able to console Harry afterwards. Ginny and Harry named her younger son after Dumbledore.
Ginny also happened to like Minerva McGonagall, her Transfiguration professor and Head of House. It is obvious that McGonagall could have been fond of Ginny since she was a talented witch and did not condone or tolerate bullying, something that McGonagall most likely valued.
Dolores Umbridge, her former DADA professor and enemy
Like nearly everyone else at Hogwarts, Ginny despised professor Dolores Umbridge, the ministry-appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts instructor for the 1995–1996 school year. Umbridge was a cruel, sadistic witch who enjoyed torturing students for punishment with the use of a Blood Quill, and attempted to take firm control of the school by passing a series of Educational Decrees. Ginny became a member of Dumbledore's Army in order to oppose her, as well to learn the practical defensive magic Umbridge refused to teach in class.
Severus Snape, her former Potions and DADA teacher
During the 1997–1998 school year, Ginny, along with Neville Longbottom and Luna Lovegood, re-formed and co-led Dumbledore's Army in rebellion against then Headmaster Severus Snape and Alecto and Amycus Carrow, two Death Eaters who had been appointed professors at Hogwarts and enjoyed punishing students with the use of the Cruciatus Curse.
Ginny showed particular dislike for the Potions master, Severus Snape as he was a cruel and very unpopular teacher. Aside from his creepy demeanour and snide attitude toward everyone, he had always favoured Slytherins because they were in his house and her particular dislike for Snape was something she shared with her brothers and friends. She also knew that he was part of the Order of the Phoenix and when she learnt that Snape killed Dumbledore, she thought he had betrayed the Order. She was also, obviously, not happy about his tenure as Headmaster when Hogwarts fell under Lord Voldemort's control. However, near the end of the Battle of Hogwarts, she learnt from Harry that he was on their side all along. It is unknown how she acted to the revelation of Snape's true loyalties. She did allow her second son to have his middle name from Severus.
Tom Riddle, her enemy
When Arthur Weasley got into a fistfight with Lucius Malfoy in Flourish and Blotts prior to the start of Ginny's first year, Malfoy used the opportunity to slip Tom Riddle's diary into the pile of books Ginny was carrying. Though Malfoy most likely believed the diary was simply enchanted to open the Chamber of Secrets, it was actually one of Voldemort's Horcruxes, and in fact, contained a fragment of the Dark Lord's soul.
Tom Riddle's soul communicated with Ginny through his diary, sympathising with her problems and giving her advice, which made her emotionally vulnerable to Riddle's influence. Eventually, Riddle was able to possess Ginny, use her to open the Chamber of Secrets, and free Salazar Slytherin's Basilisk to petrify several Muggle-born students (including Hermione Granger). Ginny eventually figured out what she had been doing, despite having no memory of what happened during the times she was possessed, after finding herself covered in feathers and rooster blood. She attempted to flush the diary down a toilet, but being a Horcrux, it remained undamaged and later ended up in the hands of Harry Potter.
Ginny, worried the diary would reveal to Harry things she'd written about her feelings for him, stole the diary back. Riddle possessed Ginny one last time and had her enter the Chamber of Secrets, with every intention of killing her and using her life to restore his own. Harry, however, as a Parselmouth, was able to enter the Chamber, rescue Ginny, and slay the Basilisk with the Sword of Gryffindor. He then used one of the Basilisk's fangs to stab the diary, effectively making it the first of Voldemort's Horcruxes to be destroyed.
Upon speaking with Dumbledore about the diary's remains, Ginny and her family came to learn that Tom Riddle is the original name of Lord Voldemort, much to Ginny's horror. According to herself in later years, Ginny would never forget these experiences and comforted Harry when he thought he was suffering a similar experience.
Upon time travelling to the night of her parents-in-law's murder, Ginny was horrified by her husband's transfiguration into an exact duplicate of Voldemort, showing that she still despised him passionately. In her words, she couldn't stand to see the man she loved in the face of the man she hated.
Ginevra is the Italian form of the name Guinevere, which means 'fair one'. Guinevere is also the name of King Arthur's wife in Arthurian legend, famous for her affair with Arthur's chief knight Sir Lancelot. There seems to be a pattern in the Weasley family of naming members after characters in Arthurian legend. Another famous muse bearing this name was Ginevra King, a socialite who inspired F. Scott Fitzgerald's character Daisy Buchanan in The Great Gatsby. The name Ginevra is also an Italian variant of Juniper, derived from the tree or berry. Junipers were often used to represent chastity in Renaissance-period art, such as in Leonardo da Vinci's Ginevra de' Benci. With links to the Welsh and Celtic history, Ginevra also means virgin. In some cultures, Ginevra can mean 'white shadow, or white wave'.
Ginny's married name is Potter, a very common surname of English origin. It traditionally refers to the occupation of making pottery. Beatrix Potter was a well-known English children's author. Potter's Field is the name for a burial ground for the unknown or unclaimed dead, particularly soldiers and orphans; the Potter family had many members that fit that description. The Potter Box is a model for making ethical decisions developed at Harvard University. J. K. Rowling has also commented that she has liked the name since childhood, as a family that had lived near her carried this surname.
Ginny as illustrated by Mary GrandPré
Bonnie Wright as Ginny Weasley
Ginny Weasley as she appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Ginny as a LEGO mini-figure (second edition)
Ginny Weasley as a LEGO mini-figure (first edition)
Ginny Weasley as a POP! Vinyl
Ginny Weasley in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Ginny Weasley as depicted on  Pottermore
Minister Hermione Jean Granger (b. 19 September 1979) was an English Muggle-born witch born to Mr and Mrs Granger. At the age of eleven, she learned about her magical nature and was accepted into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Hermione began attending Hogwarts in 1991 and was Sorted into Gryffindor House. She possessed a brilliant academic mind and proved to be a gifted student in almost every subject that she studied, to the point where she was nearly made a Ravenclaw by the Sorting Hat.
Hermione first met her future best friends Harry Potter and Ron Weasley aboard the Hogwarts Express, and initially they found her unfriendly and somewhat of an "insufferable know-it-all",  an impression reinforced by her constant correct answers and eagerness to please the professors. However, she stepped in to take the blame from the boys after they had saved her from a troll on Hallowe'en in 1991, surprising them in a grateful way, which led to them quickly becoming friends. She later played a crucial role in protecting the Philosopher's Stone from Voldemort.
In her second year, Hermione had a key role in the discovery of the Chamber of Secrets, before falling victim to the Basilisk unleashed upon Hogwarts following the opening of the Chamber. However, she recovered from the petrification under the care of Madam Pomfrey with Professor Sprout's Mandrake Restorative Draught. The next year, Hermione was granted permission to use a Time-Turner from the Ministry of Magic to facilitate her volition to study far more subjects than were possible without time travel, though she and Harry later used it to rescue Sirius Black from the Dementor's Kiss and Buckbeak the hippogriff from execution.
During her fourth year, Hermione became an advocate for the better treatment of house-elves, forming the association S.P.E.W., and helped in Harry's preparation for the Triwizard Tournament. In her fifth year, Hermione was the driving force behind the creation of Dumbledore's Army and fought alongside fellow D.A. members in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. In her sixth year, Hermione continued her role as Prefect and fought in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower.
Hermione played a significant role in many other battles of the Second Wizarding War, as well. In 1997, she fought in the Battle of the Seven Potters, alongside the Order of the Phoenix. Hermione and Ron decided not to return to Hogwarts for their final year of studies, instead choosing to accompany Harry on his quest to find and destroy Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes, a quest in which several of her actions were essential. She destroyed Hufflepuff's Cup, a Horcrux, with Ron using a Basilisk fang found in the Chamber of Secrets. Hermione then fought in the Battle of Hogwarts, helping in the defeat of the Death Eater who tortured her: Bellatrix Lestrange.
Following the Second Wizarding War, Hermione went back to Hogwarts to complete her education. She later found employment with the Ministry of Magic, furthering the cause for the better treatment of house-elves. Afterward, she was promoted to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, where she dedicated herself to eradicating old laws that were biased in favour of pure-bloods. Hermione eventually married Ron Weasley and together they had two children, Rose and Hugo. She became the godmother of Harry and Ginny Potter's eldest son James. By the year 2019, Hermione had become the Minister for Magic.
A young Hermione with her parents
Hermione was born to Mr and Mrs Granger on 19 September 1979. She was their only child. The couple choose "a nice, unusual" first name for her because they wanted to establish how educated and intelligent they were. Mr and Mrs Granger were "a bit bemused" by the oddities displayed by their daughter, but they were proud and accepting of her nonetheless. The couple gave Hermione a bedroom on the first-floor of their house, and they lived happily for many years.
A young Hermione before starting Hogwarts
Upon turning eleven, Hermione was happily surprised to learn that she was a witch and was therefore invited to attend Hogwarts. She eagerly accepted and took to studying magic even before she began her first year at Hogwarts in the September of 1991, learning all the set spell books by heart and even managing to perform "a few spells" at home successfully. In addition to the texts set by the school, Hermione brought with her several other books for reference and to further her understanding of the wizarding world, to the point that she had looked at books and had more knowledge of the wizarding world than some of her pure-blood/half-blood classmates.
Hermione and her fondness for textbooks
Hermione enjoyed her years as a pupil at Hogwarts and took assignments, classes, and school rules very seriously. She was often described as brilliant, to the point of being said to be "the brightest witch of her age". Her favourite subject was initially Charms, and later Arithmancy. Given her keen mind, some students — such as Terry Boot — wondered why Hermione was Sorted into Gryffindor rather than Ravenclaw, and she admitted that the Sorting Hat did consider putting her in Ravenclaw. It is likely that the Sorting Hat ultimately put her in Gryffindor after stalling for about 4 minutes because Hermione chose to be in it, just like Harry chose to not be in Slytherin; this is reinforced by how on the train earlier she stated that "Gryffindor... sounds by far the best."
She later proved her rightful place in Gryffindor with her steadfast bravery and loyalty to her friends, Hogwarts, and Dumbledore's Army. After being Sorted into Gryffindor, Hermione shared a dormitory with Lavender Brown, Parvati Patil, Fay Dunbar and an unnamed ginger-haired girl.
In spite of always wanting to follow the school rules, after Hermione became friends with Harry and Ron, she would disobey the rules along with them in order to successfully complete their group affairs. For example, she went with Ron and Harry into the third-floor corridor in their first year, which students were temporarily forbidden from entering, in order to save the Philosopher's Stone; she assisted in creating the Polyjuice Potion in their second year; and although Harry was the one who taught Dumbledore's Army in their fifth year, she was the one who came up with the idea.
The trio meeting for the first time aboard the Hogwarts Express
Hermione was a couple of weeks away from turning twelve when she boarded the Hogwarts Express in 1991, where she met Harry Potter and Ron Weasley while helping Neville Longbottom find his pet toad, Trevor. Hermione demonstrated knowledge and talent with magic beyond most of those her age, despite having only recently discovered that she was a witch. She wished to be a Gryffindor or a Ravenclaw, and her wish was granted considering she did get sorted into Gryffindor.
Hermione being sorted by the Sorting Hat
Hermione soon proved to be the best in all her classes, eager to please the professors and to help others learn, albeit in a bossy way that made it difficult for her to make friends. Although she was a know-it-all, Hermione did often help Neville Longbottom, who struggled in most classes other than Herbology.
Hermione strictly followed all school rules and tried to prevent other students from breaking rules and getting into trouble. On one night, she followed Harry and Ron as they were leaving Gryffindor Tower to duel Draco Malfoy. They were chased by Argus Filch, acting on a tipoff by Malfoy, into the third-floor corridor — forbidden to students — where they came face-to-face with Fluffy, a three-headed dog belonging to Hagrid. Later on, she argued that her spying was to their benefit when she pointed out the dog had been standing on a trapdoor, which neither Harry nor Ron had noticed.
The mountain troll entering the bathroom that Hermione's in during the Hallowe'en feast
The friendship between Harry, Ron and Hermione was solidified when, on Hallowe'en in 1991, the three were forced to confront a mountain troll, which had been secretly let into the school by Professor Quirinus Quirrell. Unaware that a troll was on the loose in the school, Hermione had spent that day crying in the girls' bathroom after overhearing Ron making unkind comments about her.
The troll made its way into the bathroom she was in, and Harry and Ron came to her rescue, saving her. When Professors Minerva McGonagall, Severus Snape and Quirinus Quirrell arrived at the scene, Hermione covered for the boys, claiming she was fighting the troll because she had thought that she could manage, having read a great deal about them and that Ron and Harry had merely come to help her escape. From then on, the three students were best friends and spent large amounts of time together.
Hermione setting Snape's robes on fire during a Quidditch match
The incident with the troll was by no means her only adventure in that first year. During the first Quidditch match, Hermione set Professor Snape's robes on fire when she thought he was jinxing Harry's broom. In the spring of 1992, Hagrid, now a friend of Hermione's through Harry, managed to procure a Dragon egg, the unlicensed possession of which was illegal. The three children secretly helped Hagrid care for the beast, which he'd named Norbert. When the dragon was discovered, she and Harry smuggled it out of the school to some friends of Ron's elder brother, Charlie Weasley, who worked as a dragon-tamer.
On their way back to the dormitories they were caught by Argus Filch, who escorted them to Professor Minerva McGonagall. Along with Neville Longbottom and Draco Malfoy, they received detention and had fifty points deducted each from their respective houses.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione running into Fluffy in the third-floor corridor
After their run-in with Fluffy, Harry deduced that whatever Hagrid had retrieved from Gringotts was beneath the trapdoor. Hagrid let it slip that "... What's under that trapdoor is strictly between Dumbledore and Nicholas Flamel". After much research turned up nothing, Harry was given a Dumbledore Chocolate Frog Card by Neville, which mentions Dumbledore's work in Alchemy with Flamel. This led Hermione to look at a large book on Alchemy which she had borrowed from the library for "a bit of light reading". After consulting the book, she realised that Fluffy was guarding the Philosopher's Stone.
The trio standing as a unified front during the human chess match
Fearing that Lord Voldemort would return if he stole the stone, and believing that Snape was acting as a double agent and attempting to steal it, Harry decided to steal it first. When he told Hermione that he could go on alone, she rebuffed him. After the trio passed Fluffy, it was Hermione who freed Ron from a patch of Devil's Snare he had dropped into by conjuring Bluebell Flames. She later got herself and Harry through a challenge involving a potion riddle in order to obtain the right potion between many of them. Hermione used her logic to figure out the riddle and let Harry go forward without her, as there was only enough potion for one person.
Later, at the Farewell Feast in the Great Hall, Hermione, Harry, Ron, and Neville were all awarded extra House points for bravery and heroism, allowing Gryffindor to win the House Cup. Hermione earned fifty points for Gryffindor by correctly solving Professor Snape's potion riddle.
Before she started her second year, Hermione wrote several letters to Harry at Privet Drive, all of which were intercepted by Dobby, as the house-elf wanted Harry to believe that his friends had forgotten him in order to prevent his return to Hogwarts. She and her parents also accompanied Harry and the Weasley family to Diagon Alley to shop for school supplies.
Draco Malfoy calling Hermione the derogatory slur "Mudblood"
It was during her second school year that Hermione first encountered the prejudice and hatred surrounding her blood status, when Draco Malfoy called her a "filthy little Mudblood" after she told him off for insulting the Gryffindor Quidditch team. Hermione had never heard the highly offensive term but looking around at everyone around her, it was an obvious fact. Fred and George Weasley lunged at him, and Ron even tried to hex him, but it backfired, as his wand had been damaged. To help Hermione feel better about the incident, Hagrid urged her not to think about it, pointing out that she was a talented witch, regardless of what bigoted people said about her Muggle-born status.
Harry and Ron were surprised, and Ron annoyed, by Hermione's obvious crush on Gilderoy Lockhart, who became that year's Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. She scored full marks on the first quiz in his class, which consisted entirely of questions pertaining to Lockhart's books, including a question regarding his favourite colour (lilac) that most of the class had answered incorrectly. In fact, she went as far as to doodle hearts on her DADA assignments, not knowing until later that he was, in reality, a self-obsessed fraud.
The writing on the wall and the Petrified form of Mrs Norris
On Hallowe'en 1992 Hermione attended Nearly Headless Nick's Deathday Party with Harry and Ron. Whilst heading back upstairs, she followed Harry in a detour, after he claimed to be hearing voices. They discovered the caretaker's cat, Mrs Norris, petrified and the walls vandalised. Hermione began spending all her free time in the Hogwarts Library after she saw the writing on the corridor walls, which had said that the Chamber of Secrets had been re-opened. Despite hoping to read about the legend, she could not, as all the books had been previously checked out.
Hermione asking Professor Binns about the Chamber of Secrets
Hermione shocked everyone when she actually interrupted Professor Binns during a History of Magic class, asking about the Chamber of Secrets. This was the only known time when a student had asked the boring professor a question, and the class was interested in what he had to say. Professor Binns had stated that Salazar Slytherin had hidden a chamber which consisted of a horrible monster. It had been unleashed before once by an "Heir of Slytherin", petrifying many Muggle-born and had also killed a Ravenclaw girl, named Myrtle Warren, who began haunting the girls' lavatory and became known as Moaning Myrtle. Slytherin, a pure-blood loyalist, was against Muggle-born children being allowed to attend Hogwarts, but he was outnumbered by the other founders and Muggle-borns like Hermione were permitted as students. Slytherin fled the school, but rumours spread that he had built a hidden chamber; it was said that the school had been searched many times, but no such chamber had been found.
Hermione brewing Polyjuice Potion, used by the trio in an attempt to gain information from Draco Malfoy
When Harry proposed the theory that Draco Malfoy was the Heir of Slytherin, Hermione and Ron agreed. Hermione suggested that they brew Polyjuice Potion, and temporarily transform themselves into Slytherin students in an attempt to find out the truth. She went even further by daring to check Moste Potente Potions out of the library using a note from Professor Lockhart — who had no idea what the book was — in the desire to research the potion. The book was in the Restricted Section and therefore unavailable to younger students without permission from a teacher. She hoped that they would be able to obtain a viable confession from Malfoy, if he was unaware he was being interrogated. She brewed the potion in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom, as no one used it due to Myrtle herself being highly irritating. She also risked serious consequences when she stole potion ingredients from Professor Snape's personal cupboards that were needed for the difficult potion, which took a month to brew.
The trio discuss possible theories behind Tom Riddle's mysterious diary
Unfortunately, Hermione was unable to join Harry and Ron in the ruse with Polyjuice Potion because the hair she obtained from Slytherin Millicent Bulstrode during their scuffle in the Duelling Club was actually the hair of Bulstrode's cat. Hermione grew fur and a tail and remained in the Hospital Wing for weeks as she did not transform back when the normal duration of effectiveness — one hour — was up. Harry and Ron, however, were able to use the potion she brewed to transform into Gregory Goyle and Vincent Crabbe, respectively. They entered the Slytherin common room, and through conversation with Draco Malfoy, realised that he was not the Heir of Slytherin, and was not involved in the opening of the Chamber after all.
A Petrified Hermione in the Hospital Wing
Months after her recovery from the Polyjuice complication, Hermione suffered another accident. Drawing the connection between Harry hearing voices in the walls and him being a Parselmouth, she came to the conclusion that the creature attacking students must be a Basilisk, and rushed to the library to conduct further research. On her way back from the library, she warned the first person she saw, Penelope Clearwater, and advised her to look around corners with a mirror before going anywhere. It saved both their lives, because they were both petrified when they spotted the Basilisk's eyes through the mirror instead of dying immediately as they would have done if they'd looked straight into its eyes.
Though she was petrified for the rest of the school year, Hermione was still able to assist Harry and Ron, for she had torn out the page on Basilisks and scribbled on it "pipes", referencing the manner in which the creature had moved around the school undetected. Harry and Ron found it clenched in her hand when they were finally allowed to visit her in the Hospital Wing. Using this note and other information they had gathered, Harry and Ron were able to successfully put an end to Lord Voldemort's plans to resurrect his body through his memory stored in an old school diary.
A fully recovered Hermione
Hermione was later cured with a Mandrake Restorative Draught created by Professor Sprout. Upon arriving at the Great Hall, she was immediately greeted by Nearly Headless Nick. After hugging Harry she exchanged an awkward greeting with Ron. Hermione was disappointed to learn that, as a special treat for the school, Professor Dumbledore cancelled the students' end of year exams, but she was intensely proud that her friends had solved the mystery. That summer, Hermione went on holiday to France with her parents.
Hermione adopting Crookshanks from the Magical Menagerie
Just before she began the 1993-1994 school year, while visiting Diagon Alley with Harry and the Weasley family, Hermione met and adopted a ginger part-Kneazle cat named Crookshanks from the Magical Menagerie. However, her new bond with her cat caused friction with Ron and his pet rat Scabbers, as Crookshanks was always trying to catch the rat. Also at the beginning of this school year, Hermione obtained a Time-Turner from Professor McGonagall so she could double up on classes, though this was kept secret from everyone, even Harry and Ron.
When Harry received a Firebolt for Christmas with no note, Hermione reported it to Professor McGonagall, thinking it was sent by Sirius Black, whom everyone believed to be a dangerous murderer who was after Harry. His broom was taken away to be inspected, which caused a temporary rift between the two friends. There was a further social strain for Hermione when Ron accused Crookshanks of eating Scabbers, who had disappeared.
Hermione hitting Draco Malfoy for cruelly mocking Hagrid
Hermione poured herself into defending Buckbeak, the hippogriff on trial before the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures for attacking Draco Malfoy during a Care of Magical Creatures class. Once the trio reconciled, after Hagrid told Harry and Ron how disappointed he was when they selfishly put the Firebolt and Scabbers over their friendship with Hermione, they apologised. Their attempt to save Buckbeak failed, as Lucius Malfoy frightened the Committee into deciding that the creature would be executed. Hermione was extremely upset by this news and grew furious to the point of slapping Draco Malfoy when he dared to mock Hagrid for his tears and being upset over Buckbeak's fate.
That year, Hermione was among the students who found Remus Lupin to be the best Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher they have ever had. She cleverly deduced that Professor Lupin was a werewolf, based on his Boggart taking the form of a full moon, the timing of his unexplained absences from class, and Professor Snape changing a lesson he took over to the subject of werewolves even though it wasn't due on the syllabus for weeks. However, she didn't expose Lupin, presumably because she believed he was a good teacher and didn't agree with the prejudice many hold against werewolves.
Divination, on the other hand, turned out to be a subject Hermione had no respect for or interest in, and soon dropped the subject after Professor Sybill Trelawney told her that she did not posses the Second Sight and because she believed that Divination was an imprecise branch of magic.
Professor Lupin and Sirius Black with the trio, before forcing Pettigrew into human form
On the day of Buckbeak's execution, the trio ventured down to console Hagrid. While in his cabin, Hermione discovered Scabbers, Ron's lost rat. Hagrid urged them to leave and they witnessed from a distance what they believed to be Buckbeak's execution. Before they could return to their dormitory, Scabbers bit Ron and fled. While chasing after the rat, they were attacked by a black dog, which pulled Ron by the leg into a tunnel beneath the Whomping Willow, which then attacked them.
Afterward, Hermione and Harry hurried after them eventually arriving in the Shrieking Shack, where Sirius Black, whose Animagus form was the black dog, confronted them. They were soon joined by Professor Lupin who was acting strangely, and Hermione told Harry and Ron of her belief that he was a werewolf, which he then confirmed. It was revealed that Sirius had been framed for the betrayal of James and Lily Potter, and that the true traitor was Peter Pettigrew, who had been hiding from the world as Ron's pet rat. Hermione also cast Expelliarmus on Snape when he discovered them, knocking him out, at which she was horrified.
Harry, Hermione, and Sirius being attacked by Dementors at the Black Lake
Once it had been decided that Pettigrew would be turned over to the authorities rather than murdered, the motley group left the Shrieking Shack. When the full moon appeared, chaos ensued as Lupin transformed into a werewolf as, due to the chaotic turn of events, he hadn't taken the Wolfsbane potion that Professor Snape produced for him monthly in order for him to retain his humanity. In the chaos, Pettigrew attacked Ron and escaped, and Sirius had to transform into his dog form in order to protect Harry, Ron, and Hermione from the werewolf. After Lupin was eventually distracted by a howl from the Forbidden Forest, Hermione and Harry rushed to Sirius' aid when they heard him moaning, but hundreds of Dementors descended on them, come to recapture Sirius who quickly fainted, and Harry told Hermione to think of something happy and attempt to cast a patronus as he was trying to himself, but she was unable to cast one.
As Harry conjured an incorporeal Patronus, Hermione passed out, leaving Harry to fight the Dementors alone. Harry held them off for a while but was eventually overwhelmed. The Dementors were about to perform the Kiss on Harry, Hermione, and Sirius when a mysterious figure in the distance cast a very powerful Patronus Charm to repel the Dementors. Unable to see properly in the resulting blinding light, Harry thought he glimpsed his father just before he, too, lost consciousness.
Harry and Hermione using the Time-turner
Harry and Hermione awoke in the Hospital Wing after being rescued by Severus Snape, who conjured stretchers for Hermione, Harry and Sirius. After realising that Sirius' soul was to be destroyed by the Dementor's Kiss and receiving vague, though instructive and useful, instructions from Dumbledore, Hermione used her Time-Turner to return herself and Harry to a time earlier in the evening. It was a very difficult task and Harry had to be constantly reminded by Hermione to stay concealed as being seen could cause irreparable damage to their timelines. Hermione agreed with Harry that it was difficult to watch their problems again, but she strictly said that they could do nothing about it, as bad things happened to wizards who tried to meddle with their past and future lives.
Harry and Hermione setting Sirius Black and Buckbeak free
The two did, however, successfully use the opportunity to rescue Sirius and also Buckbeak, as it was hinted by Dumbledore that more than one innocent life could be spared that night. Whilst waiting, she discussed their saviour with Harry, and when Harry realised that it was not his father he saw but himself having travelled back in time, she claimed that none but a powerful wizard could have conjured a Patronus to drive away that many Dementors. As evidenced by her assertion that time-travelling was extremely dangerous, Hermione took great personal risk to save Sirius and Buckbeak. At the end of the year Hermione returned her Time-Turner, claiming it caused too much trouble and that she would drop a few subjects instead, which was a very big surprise to everyone.
Ron, Harry, and Hermione after the riot of the 1994 Quidditch World Cup
Before her fourth year at Hogwarts, Hermione spent much of the summer holidays at the Burrow with Harry and Ron, sharing a room with Ginny Weasley. With the other Weasleys (excluding Molly Weasley), they attended the 1994 Quidditch World Cup in August. After the game, the communal campsite was set upon by Death Eaters. Hermione, Harry, and Ron fled into the woods and witnessed the casting of Morsmordre. Initially caught up in the chaos surrounding the effort to catch the caster, she took exception to the accusations levelled against Harry, and the many wizards' treatment of the house-elf Winky who had also been at the scene.
Once at Hogwarts, it was revealed to the students that former Auror Alastor Moody (who was, in fact, a polyjuiced Barty Crouch Jnr) was to be the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Lupin having left at the end of the previous year due to Snape outing his werewolf status. Moody was a hands-on professor who believed in a practical approach when it came to defence. One of his earliest lessons was on the Unforgivable Curses. Hermione and her fellow classmates witnessed the curse's effects on a spider.
The first "meeting" of the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare
Hermione began a crusade for the liberation of house-elves by beginning the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, or what she and the group called S.P.E.W, (or, as Ronald Weasley called it, "spew") having been appalled by Bartemius Crouch's abusive treatment of his house-elf Winky. This did not earn her any popularity, as most believed that house-elves enjoy their work; indeed, even the house-elves did not like her campaigning.
Harry, Ron, and Neville only reluctantly joined S.P.E.W., mostly in order to prevent Hermione from nagging them about it. Hagrid as well as Fred and George Weasley refused to join on the grounds that it would upset the house-elves. Despite this, Fred did tell Hermione how to get into the Hogwarts kitchens. One morning she (along with Harry and Ron) visited the kitchens, where she spoke to Dobby and Winky. Dobby was pleased to see Harry and his friends and proceeded to tell them his struggles as a freed elf.
The trio visiting the house-elves in the Hogwarts kitchen
While the trio were within the kitchen it was revealed that Winky was so saddened by the lose of her previous job that she had taken to drinking Butterbeer, as a means to get drunk and numb her pain. Hermione considered Dobby to be a good example of a free elf and tried to comfort Winky about being sacked by Crouch. This did little good, however, as Winky soon became upset by Hermione's claims that house-elves deserved to have holidays and wages. Winky was not the only elf bothered by this, as the other elves stated that proper house-elves would never need such things and to want them is considered very shameful.
Hermione believed Harry without question when he said he did not enter his name in the Triwizard Tournament
After the events surrounding Harry's name coming out of the Goblet of Fire, Hermione was the only student who believed Harry's innocence. In fact, she "accepted his story without question". Even Ron was suspicious that Harry had cheated in order to gain more glory, creating a rift between the two for some time. Hermione helped Harry prepare for the first task of the Triwizard Tournament by helping him learn useful spells. Some of the spells were Stupefy, Impedimenta, Accio, the Shield Charm, and the Four-Point Spell. She also tried to get Harry and Ron to talk to one another multiple times.
Hermione unknowingly attracted the interest of Durmstrang Triwizard Champion and Bulgarian International Seeker, Viktor Krum. He was attracted to her due to her intelligence, unconventional beauty, and the manner in which she declined to hound him for autographs, unlike other girls. Krum began following Hermione to the library and other places around Hogwarts, including the library. This was something that Hermione found very irritating, as she couldn't work when surrounded by giggling girls, who had taken it upon themselves to follow Krum throughout the castle and the school grounds. Krum even bizarrely asked Harry if it was all right for him to pursue Hermione. He eventually asked her to attend the Yule Ball with him, and she accepted, not telling anyone but Ginny Weasley that she was his date.
Hermione dancing with her date, Viktor Krum at the Yule Ball
Thus, when the pair arrived, many were stunned and jealous. Hermione wore robes of a "floaty, periwinkle-blue material", and her hair in an "elegant knot at the back of her head". The attention to her appearance was unusual, and she received many positive remarks on it. Even Draco Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson had nothing negative to say. Hermione commented that she had used Sleekeazy's Hair Potion, but that it was too much work to use it every day.
Upon seeing Hermione with Krum, Ron was overcome with jealousy. Hermione had hoped for Ron to ask her, but his invitation was insensitive and at the last minute due to him not being able to find anyone else. The two rowed about it in the common room after the ball, in which she revealed that he should have asked her properly and not "as a last resort", but Ron misunderstood the point. After that, the two were seemingly more polite to each other, although more distant for a time and Ron continued to show dislike and distrust towards Krum.
Hermione inside the Black Lake during the second task
Hermione was chosen as a "kidnap victim" for Krum during the Tournament's second task, something that she subsequently endured teasing over. She was taken to the bottom of the Black Lake to await rescue from Krum, who donned a half-shark Transfiguration. While in the Black Lake Harry was conflicted and wanted to retrive her as much as he wanted to retrieve Ron. He stated that "she was his friend too". Krum managed to rescue her and carried her to the surface, where he revealed to her later that he "never felt this way about any other girl" and asked her to visit him in Bulgaria over the summer.
Krum was jealous of Hermione's relationship with Harry Potter, thinking that there may have been something romantic between them that went beyond just plain friendship. The jealousy was founded based on the lies in the Daily Prophet and Harry was quick to inform Krum of these lies.
Hermione receiving hate mail from the readers of Witch Weekly in response to Skeeter's article
Rita Skeeter, a journalist for the Daily Prophet and unregistered Animagus, was hiding in beetle form in Hermione's hair during her conversation with Viktor. Hermione had previously reprimanded Skeeter for printing horrible lies about Harry and Rubeus Hagrid. This angered the journalist, who wrote a scathing article on "the devious Miss Granger", claiming that she was toying with both Harry and Krum's affections and that she had developed a taste for famous wizards.
Skeeter even went so far to claim that Hermione was possibly brewing love potions. In the words of Ron, Skeeter was making Hermione out to be a "Scarlet Woman", a phrase which made Hermione laugh. She called Hermione "plain" in the article, in spite of previously reporting Hermione as Harry's "stunningly pretty... girlfriend" by likely twisting and sensationalising the words of Colin Creevey and thus using this as the basis for the article.
Although Hermione found the lies ridiculous, some people believed them and started sending Hermione hate mail, including one filled with Bubotuber Pus, and even Molly Weasley treated her coldly until Harry corrected her. Hermione vowed to get revenge on Skeeter for her libel, and wondered how she was getting her information, as several things Skeeter knew had only been discussed in private conversations. This led her to come to the realisation that Skeeter was an illegal unregistered Animagus, who took the form of a beetle to secretly witness confidential exchanges.
Hermione was present when the Minister for Magic visited Harry in the hospital wing
The students were shocked when Harry returned at the end of the third and final task with Cedric Diggory's dead body. Hermione was relieved to see Harry when he was brought to the infirmary by Professor Dumbledore. She was upset with Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge when he refused to believe Harry and Dumbledore about the truth of Voldemort's return. During her time with Harry in the Hospital Wing, she noticed Skeeter on a windowsill, attempting to eavesdrop, and captured her in the process. Hermione did not go against Harry's story when she finally heard it, sticking by her best friend.
On the ride home on the Hogwarts Express, Hermione happily revealed to Harry and Ron that she uncovered Skeeter's status as an unregistered Animagus and had trapped her in a jar. She as an unregistered beetle Animagus that used her tiny size to come onto school grounds and listen to private conversations. She was not allowed onto school grounds and Hermione caught her on a windowsill in the hospital wing. Hermione also noticed the markings around Rita's antennae were exactly like the foul glasses she wore. She kept Skeeter from writing for a year by threatening to expose her to the authorities.
She single-handed drove Skeeter into poverty, gaining revenge for the pain caused to Harry and her other friends. However, with the return of Lord Voldemort and the murder of Cedric Diggory at the end of the school year, there were much more serious challenges ahead for Hermione and her friends.
Hermione with others in 12 Grimmauld Place preparing to clean
Following the death of Cedric Diggory, the Ministry of Magic refused to accept Harry and Dumbledore's claims that Lord Voldemort had returned, and the Daily Prophet labelled them either liars or nutters. However, Hermione and Ron believed Harry and defended him against the criticism of doubtful classmates. Though occasionally Harry vented his frustration at them, the two stuck by him. The trio also wanted to become members of the reconvened Order of the Phoenix but were not allowed to because they were under-age. Hermione helped exterminate 12 Grimmauld Place, which served as headquarters for the Order, and was immensely relieved when Harry was acquitted of the charge of having used underage magic in the presence of a muggle, after him and Dudley Dursley were attacked by a Dementor in Little Whinging.
Before returning to Hogwarts, she and Ron learned that they had been appointed prefects for Gryffindor house, to the secret consternation of Harry, who couldn't believe Ron had been chosen over him. She took her position very seriously. Once the school year began, Hermione resumed some of her activism on behalf of house-elves, though she was not as intense about S.P.E.W. as she had been the previous year.
The trio and Neville meet Luna Lovegood for the first time
She learned how to knit socks and hats for the house-elves and hid them in Gryffindor Tower, disguising them with crumpled rubbish in an attempt to trick the house-elves into accidentally freeing themselves. The elves found this attempt insulting, and they stopped cleaning the Tower at all. Dobby was the only one who enjoyed the gifts, took everything Hermione had made, and cleaned the Tower by himself, a fact which Hermione didn't know.
Hermione was challenged in more ways than one that year when she met Luna Lovegood, whose belief in many things without logical grounds baffled Hermione. However, the two became friends after accepting one another's differences.
Hermione practising with Dumbledore's Army in the Room of Requirement
Meanwhile, it was not long before Hermione realised that the Ministry of Magic had decided to interfere at Hogwarts. Dolores Umbridge, a cruel, falsely sweet Ministry employee with a personality like "poisoned honey", was appointed as the new professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts and Hermione, like Harry and Ron, disliked Umbridge for many reasons, one of which being that she refused to teach students practical defence, focusing only on theory, despite their OWLs being later that year.
With this being the case, Hermione decided that Hogwarts needed a competent teacher and, together with Harry and Ron, founded Dumbledore's Army, a secret organisation in which students would gather after classes and be taught practical defensive spells. She suggested that Harry be the teacher; though he originally thought the idea ridiculous, he consented to teach the class. The name was suggested by Ginny, who recalled the conversation they'd had about Fudge's greatest fear being that Dumbledore would form an army of students if the Ministry did not intervene at Hogwarts.
Hermione conjuring her otter Patronus
One of the many advanced spells Hermione learned was the Patronus Charm; hers took the corporeal form of an otter. Hermione became one of the few people brave enough to call Voldemort by his actual name. However, Hermione made the mistake of arranging the first meeting to take place in the Hog's Head, as opposed to the Three Broomsticks, which Sirius, appearing in the Gryffindor Common Room fire, said would have made it a lot harder for anyone to overhear. Willy Widdershins, who was in the Hog's Head, went to Umbridge, who instituted Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four to forbid any type of students groups from being formed under her watchful eye.
The trio and Ginny in St Mungo's after visiting Arthur Weasley
Halfway through the year at Hogwarts, Harry had a vision of Voldemort's snake, Nagini, biting Mr Weasley during his task for the Order of the Phoenix. Mr Weasley was carried into St Mungo's Hospital, where Mrs Weasley screamed at him for trying to stitch his wound instead of healing it with magic.
Hermione was one of the few who visited him and stayed at Number Twelve, Grimmauld Place for a couple of weeks until Mr Weasley was nursed back to health. Hermione had managed to convince her parents by telling them that skiing wasn't really her thing and that people who were serious about their exams stayed at Hogwarts and studied.
The trio in the Gryffindor common room having a discussion about recent events
The D.A. brought Harry into greater contact with Cho Chang. After a meeting, Harry kissed Cho, and when he returned to the Gryffindor Common Room Hermione immediately guessed, asking if Cho had cornered him after the meeting. When Harry told them that Cho has been crying, she explained to Harry and Ron that Cho was having a hard time since Cedric Diggory, who she used to go out with, was killed by Lord Voldemort. Hermione later gave Harry advice on Cho and girls in general.
In an effort to combat the lies being told about Harry, Hermione arranged for an interview during a Hogsmeade visit with Rita Skeeter to be printed in The Quibbler telling his side of the story, blackmailing Skeeter into penning it in a sympathetic tone. Despite being banned — or maybe because it was banned — it became the magazine's best-selling issue of all time.
It was Hermione's brilliant spell-work that ensured the security of Dumbledore's Army. She created coins enchanted with the Protean Charm, an advanced spell, as a method of communication, and jinxed the club's attendance sheet to give any tattler a horrendous rash on the face, which would spell out "SNEAK" in painful boils. This is exactly what happened to Marietta Edgecombe, a reluctant member of the D.A., having been brought to the meetings by Cho. Shortly before Easter, Marietta finally caved under the pressure from her ministry mother who worked in the the Floo Network Office and betrayed the D.A. to Umbridge. When Harry learned that they could not find a counter-curse to heal her face, he swelled with pride at Hermione's jinxing ability.
Hermione and Neville Longbottom being held against their will by the Inquisitorial Squad
Dobby the house-elf learned of this turn of events and rushed to the Room of Requirement to warn Harry and the D.A. They immediately scattered, and most members escaped, but Harry was caught by Umbridge and several Slytherin students who were members of the Inquisitorial Squad. A search of the room uncovered the parchment that each member of the D.A. had signed, headed Dumbledore's Army. Finally having "proof" that Dumbledore was building an army to challenge the Ministry, Umbridge immediately contacted Cornelius Fudge. Dumbledore fled the school and Umbridge became Headmistress. Hermione was not exposed at that time, but later she was brought to Umbridge's office by the some members of the Inquisitorial Squad.
Late in the fall of that year, Hagrid, who had been missing for the entirety of the school year, returned to Hogwarts. Hermione, Harry, and Ron ventured down to see him immediately even though it was after curfew. Hermione was aghast at the injuries Hagrid had sustained and greatly curious as to his story. Hagrid told the trio about his mission with Madame Maxime to try and recruit the giants in the fight against Voldemort. They were almost caught when Umbridge called on Hagrid that night, but hid under the Invisibilty Cloak.
Hermione forcefully telling Grawp to put her down
Months later, Hermione and Harry learned why Hagrid was perpetually bruised and cut; he had brought his giant half-brother Grawp back to Hogwarts, as he was getting severely bullied, and was trying to teach him human ways. After Grawp, who had the mental age of a human toddler, picked her up, Hermione forcefully told him to put him down. He subsequently became enamoured with Hermione, calling her "Hermy". It was one of the few words he could pronounce.
Just after their class took their O.W.L.s, Harry had a vision of his godfather being tortured by Voldemort in the Department of Mysteries. Hermione was worried that it was a trap and convinced Harry to try to contact Sirius before doing anything rash. To that end, she accompanied Harry in an act of solidarity as he sneaked into Umbridge's office to use the Floo Network, with the assistance of Ron, Ginny, and Luna Lovegood, but they were ultimately caught. When Umbridge threatened to use the Cruciatus Curse on Harry during questioning, Hermione interceded. She came up with a lie that she and her fellow D.A. members had been building a weapon for Dumbledore, thus stopping Umbridge's sadistic interrogation and attempted torture of Harry.
Hermione and Harry lured Umbridge into the Forbidden Forest
Hermione successfully lured Umbridge into the Forbidden Forest by saying that's where the weapon was hidden, where Umbridge was carried away by a herd of centaurs. She had predicted that the centaurs would let her and Harry go, since they did not insult the centaurs and were young enough to be considered "foals". However, the centaurs were already enraged by Umbridge and were further angered when Hermione admitted that she had hoped that they would drive Umbridge off, being insulted that they were thought of to do the bidding of humans. The centaurs were about to carry the two students off as well, but Grawp stumbled onto the scene and a fight broke out between the giant and the herd. This allowed Hermione and Harry to escape and meet up with Ron, Ginny, Luna, and Neville, who had escaped from the Inquisitorial Squad.
After a brief argument between Harry and Neville over whether or not the others were going to travel with Harry to London, an understanding was reached. The six students flew on Thestrals (which the majority, Hermione included, could not even see) to the Ministry of Magic to try to save Sirius from Voldemort and his Death Eaters.
The six D.A. members battling Death Eaters for possession of the prophecy
Hermione's fear turned out to be justified, as Harry's vision was a ruse planted in his brain by Voldemort designed to lure him to the Ministry to obtain a prophecy Voldemort sought. As soon as Harry did this, the six D.A. members were surrounded by Death Eaters, and a battle ensued. Hermione stunned Nott when he grabbed Harry, thus freeing him and causing Nott to be injured by the collapsing shelves of prophecies. She later stunned another Death Eater and Silenced Antonin Dolohov before he could alert the other Death Eaters to the group's location. She was critically injured by the curse Dolohov subsequently struck her with, but made a full recovery.
Hermione visiting Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes for the first time
Hermione achieved high academic prestige when she obtained ten O.W.L.s, in Charms, Defence Against the Dark Arts, Transfiguration, Care of Magical Creatures, Arithmancy, History of Magic, Herbology, Astronomy, Potions, and Ancient Runes. She received 'Outstanding' marks on each of them, except Defence Against the Dark Arts in which she received an 'Exceeds Expectations'. In total she achieved 10 O.W.L.s. Ron found it amusing that she actually seemed disappointed by this.
Hermione brewing a Draught of Living Death in a N.E.W.T.-level Potions lesson
By the time they arrived in Hogwarts, Hermione's romantic feelings for Ron had become obvious. According to Harry the two seemed on their way to a romantic relationship. Hermione and Ron's relationship suffered greatly in their sixth year, when Ron became envious of both Hermione and Harry, who were invited to be members of the Slug Club, a group of students favoured by Potions professor Horace Slughorn, while he was ignored. Hermione strongly disapproved of Harry using the textbook of the "Half-Blood Prince" to get ahead in Potions unfairly, though she did not turn him in and indirectly found a clue about the book owner. She was particularly alarmed by the increasingly Dark nature of the magic in the book, such as the spell Sectumsempra.
Harry comforting an upset Hermione after she witnessed Ron snogging Lavender
However, during an argument with his sister, Ginny mocked Ron about his inexperience with the opposite gender and told him that Hermione had kissed Viktor Krum during their earlier romance. Ron subsequently began treating Hermione coldly, much to her bewilderment. She was upset when he and Lavender started flirting. When she found out about Ron's relationship with Lavender, she conjured a flock of wild birds to attack Ron for his insensitivity regarding her feelings. He became even angrier with her when she believed that Harry slipped Ron Felix Felicis to assist in his Quidditch-playing abilities; despite having believed it initially himself, he accused her of having no faith in him when it was discovered that he had not been slipped the potion at all.
After this, Hermione attended Slughorn's Christmas party with Cormac McLaggen to get back at Ron, but it did not go well due to the former's impoliteness. Afterwards, Ron (who was relieved that Hermione and McLaggen's date did not go well) attempted to speak to Hermione, but she ignored him, still upset and angry over his previous treatment of her. This behaviour presisted for quite sometime.
Madam Pomfrey checking on a poisoned Ron, while Hermione, Harry, and Ginny are sitting by his bedside
The two reconciled after Ron was hospitalised due to consuming poisoned mead, an event that left Hermione shaken and frightened. After the incident she remained unusually quiet and subdued. Whilst sitting at Ron's bedside, Ron subconsciously muttered Hermione's name. By this time, Ron was visibly disillusioned with his relationship with Lavender, who had become possessive of him and called him by the annoying nickname "Won-Won". He was also pleased whenever Hermione visited him in the hospital wing.
He began avoiding Lavender, who soon became suspicious of his relationship with Hermione, ultimately leading to an argument about her. After Lavender saw Ron and Hermione come down alone from the boys' dormitories (Harry was present also, but under the invisibility cloak), she had a fight with Ron and broke up with him. When Ron told Harry and Hermione about breaking up with Lavender, Harry could have sworn he saw Hermione smirk.
Hermione and Ron discussing the Half-Blood Prince
Afterwards, Hermione and Ron were more comfortable together, and their relationship improved considerably, although a romantic relationship remained out of their reach. Hermione comforted Ron after he failed his Apparition test because he Splinched half an eyebrow, while he teased her about the instructor's praise for her flawless performance. That year, Hermione also quickly mastered nonverbal magic, the first in her class to do so.
Throughout the year, Hermione and Ron were both sceptical of Harry's theory that Draco Malfoy had been branded with the Dark Mark and was up to something. Moreover, she was confident that Malfoy couldn't have brought any Dark objects into Hogwarts without alerting Filch. These claims were heard by Draco himself, who used these details and Hermione's previous plan of communication to accomplish his own.
A tearful Hermione standing at the base of the Astronomy Tower after Dumbledore's death
Near the end of the school year, Harry's suspicions would be proven right. Malfoy let Death Eaters into the school by means of a pair of vanishing cabinets. One cabinet resided in Borgin and Burkes and the other in the Room of Hidden Things (as it had been presumed broken, but Malfoy managed to fix it). This infiltration of Death Eaters resulted in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. Hermione fought in the battle and remained unscathed thanks to some Felix Felicis. This was a gift from Harry, who had won it in a Potions competition and had a preconceived notion of what was going to happen. He told Hermione, Ron, and Ginny to drink it beforehand in case his worries proved true.
The funeral of Albus Dumbledore
Throughout the school year, Hermione and Ron had been informed of the content of Harry's private lessons with Dumbledore. Through these lessons Harry, and in turn Hermione and Ron, learned about the existence of Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes. During the funeral of Albus Dumbledore, who had been killed by Snape in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, Hermione was comforted by Ron and cried on his shoulder. Afterwards, Harry told them about his desire to drop out of Hogwarts to hunt Horcruxes, which were the key to defeating Lord Voldemort. Despite his protests, Hermione and Ron promised to forgo their seventh year of school in order to assist Harry. Before leaving the school, Hermione was able to Summon books about Horcruxes so as to learn how to destroy the items. She found them in Dumbledore's office, where the late headmaster had kept them after the subject had been banned at Hogwarts.
Hermione modifying her parents' memories
Hermione began planning for her journey with Harry and Ron immediately. Concerned for the safety of her family, she altered her parents' memories to make them think they were Wendell and Monica Wilkins and sent them to hide in Australia, no longer aware of their original identities, the existence of their daughter, or anything she had told them about Harry. She also withdrew all of her savings at her building society account, in event of a need for Muggle money..
The seven Potters and their protectors right before the sky battle
Hermione then joined the Order of the Phoenix in the operation to remove Harry from 4 Privet Drive before his 17th birthday, taking Polyjuice Potion to become one of the "seven Potters". Hermione flew on a Thestral with Kingsley Shacklebolt. The two fought off at least five Death Eaters, possibly killing one, injuring two, and were pursued by Lord Voldemort himself at one point. In time, they arrived safely at the Burrow, where Hermione was immensely relieved to see Harry alive and ran to him and hugged him tight, but she was greatly worried when Ron did not show up on time. When he landed, she ran and nuzzled him in relief. She was saddened by the news of Alastor Moody and Hedwig's murders and disturbed by Harry's vision of Garrick Ollivander being tortured.
Scrimgeour giving the trio the items left for them in Albus Dumbledore's will
Later on, the Minister for Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour, interrupted Harry's birthday celebrations to execute Albus Dumbledore's will and bequeath some of his belongings to the three friends. Hermione received The Tales of Beedle the Bard, a book of children's stories written in runes. Even before Hermione understood the priceless quality of the gift, she was moved to tears by Dumbledore's great act of friendship. During the reading of Dumbledore's will, she also displayed her incredible store of general knowledge when she mentioned that "Snitches have flesh memories", surprising both Ron and Harry, who had both believed her to know little to nothing of Quidditch.
At Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding on 1 August, 1997, Hermione wore a "floaty, lilac-coloured dress with matching high heels" and made her hair "sleek and shiny". She was amused by Fred and George's stories about their late uncle Bilius and shared a friendly exchange with Viktor Krum, to the frustration of Ron. She was happily surprised when Ron quickly asked her to dance, and when Krum asked a disguised Harry whether the two were together, Harry replied "Er... sort of."
Kingsley's Patronus warning the wedding attendees of the Ministry's fall
The wedding was interrupted by Kingsley Shacklebolt's Patronus who told the guests of the fall of the Ministry of Magic. Hermione was prepared to make a quick escape, immediately Disapparating herself, Harry, and Ron away from the danger. Hermione also showed great foresight and magical talent when she revealed a small beaded purse on which she had placed an Undetectable Extension Charm. Within it she had packed, amongst other things, clothing, a tent, healing supplies, Harry's Invisibility Cloak, and several useful books. They arrived on the Muggle street, Tottenham Court Road, where Hermione suggested they enter a café, as a means to get out of the open.
Hermione casting Petrificus Totalus on Antonin Dolohov
However, minutes later Hermione unknowingly triggered the Taboo jinx that was placed on Voldemort's name, and the trio were thus tracked down by Antonin Dolohov and Thorfinn Rowle. After a brief but violent skirmish, the Death Eaters were subdued, and Hermione modified their memories to throw them off the scent and to maintain Ron's cover story that he was sick with spattergroit and bedridden at home. At Harry's suggestion the three then made their way safely to 12 Grimmauld Place, as they could not hide anywhere within the wizarding world.
After learning from Mundungus Fletcher that Dolores Umbridge had Tom Riddle's mother's locket - one of the seven Horcruxes - in her possession, the trio formed a plan to infiltrate the Ministry and reclaim the locket. Hermione imbibed Polyjuice Potion and transformed to look like Mafalda Hopkirk, a prominent Ministry official. She was forced to sit through the trials of Alderton and Mary Cattermole, innocent Muggle-borns, right alongside Umbridge and Death Eater Yaxley. Hermione tricked Umbridge into telling her about the locket, which she claimed was a Selwyn family heirloom.
Harry casting his Patronus at Dementors while in the trial courtroom, before capturing the locket
When Harry attacked Umbridge in a rage, their cover was blown, but she and Harry managed to free the Muggle-born prisoners and encouraged them to flee the country while Voldemort was in power. Hermione took the locket from Umbridge, replacing it with a copy using the Geminio spell. They met up with Ron again and fled the Ministry, but Yaxley grabbed onto Hermione's arm while they were Disapparating. This meant that he was unwittingly brought inside the enchantment making Grimmauld Place undetectable, and forced Hermione to use a Revulsion Jinx to free herself from him, and then to take the trio away from Grimmauld Place.
Harry and Ron rowing before Ron abandoned the hunt
The locket caused great pain among the three friends due to the negative energy within. They began arguing over petty issues such as cooking, and growing moodier. The negative energy from the locket caused Ron to accuse Harry of poor leadership. They fought physically, although Hermione stopped them before they started casting spells by casting a Shield Charm between them. Ron also accused Hermione of choosing Harry over him, causing him to be jealous and feel left out by his two friends' growing friendship. He declared he was leaving and stormed out of the tent.
By the time she got rid of the shield charm, all Hermione could do was scream for him to come back, without success. Hermione then cried over Ron for more than a week after his departure, although she tried to hide it from Harry. Both were deeply saddened and hurt by their friend's departure, although Hermione more than Harry, as she cried over Ron's departure for weeks. With Ron gone, Hermione and Harry's evenings were spent in mostly silence, while they contemplated Ron's abandonment and the places Voldemort's remaining Horcruxes might be hidden.
Hermione in Bathilda Bagshot's cottage, holding the The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore
Hermione and Harry soon decided to go to Godric's Hollow, to see the graves of Harry's parents and to speak to historian Bathilda Bagshot. They believed Bathilda might be holding onto Godric Gryffindor's Sword for Harry, as they thought Dumbledore might have left it with her as an old family friend, knowing it was the only method the trio knew for destroying a Horcrux. Hermione comforted Harry in the graveyard when they found the Potters' graves; she nuzzled her head in to the crook between his head and shoulders and conjured roses for the graves. On their way out of the graveyard they came into contact with what appeared to be Bathilda.
The pair then went to Bathilda's house; whilst in the house they were separated. Harry witnessed a giant snake pouring from the neck of Bathilda's body and was attacked by Nagini upstairs. Nagini had been waiting for them in the guise of the old woman, whose corpse had been animated like an Inferius by Voldemort. Hermione rushed to Harry's aid and proceeded to save his life by casting a Blasting Cure, which ricocheted around the room. The two of them barely escaped before Lord Voldemort himself arrived at the cabin in an attempt to capture Harry.
Harry and Hermione talking about Albus Dumbledore in the forest of Dean
Hermione Apparated to the Forest of Dean, while Harry was overcome with pain and visions of Voldemort's attack on his parents and him in 1981. She used a Severing Charm to remove the locket from Harry and healed the bite Nagini had given him with dittany. Harry's wand had also been broken in the foray, most likely by the Blasting Curse Hermione cast at Nagini. Hermione was very upset a the thought that it was her curse that broke Harry's wand. Harry was heartbroken, but not angry with her, knowing that it was an accident and that Hermione had saved his life and therefore could not hold it against her.
Hermione still upset with Ron even after his return
Ron reunited with Harry and Hermione in the Forest of Dean, after Ron heard them talking through the Deluminator Dumbledore had left him. Ron destroyed the locket Horcrux with Godric Gryffindor's Sword, which had been left by an unknown assistant in a pool in the Forest, saving Harry's life and thus receiving forgiveness from Harry for leaving. Before he destroyed it, however, the locket revealed some of Ron's deepest fears, including that Hermione preferred Harry to him. Hermione, however, was unaware of this, as she had been in the tent while this occurred.
Upon seeing Ron, she screamed at Ron despite Harry trying to tell her that Ron just saved his life, and punched him until Harry cast a shield charm between them with Hermione's wand. She was furious with Ron for days for his abandonment, but gradually warmed up to him again.
The trio speaking with Xenophilius Lovegood at his home, near the village of Ottery St Catchpole
The trio then travelled together to Xenophilius Lovegood's home to ask him about the strange symbol in The Tales of Beedle the Bard, which Xenophilius had worn on a chain around his neck at Bill and Fleur's wedding. They had thought it to be the sign of the Dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald after Krum recognised it at the wedding (Grindelwald being a former Durmstrang student), but Xenophilius informed them it was the symbol of the Deathly Hallows. Shortly after making this discovery, Harry realised that Luna wasn't at home, despite it being the Christmas holidays, and had been away for a long time. Xenophilius revealed to them that Luna had been taken prisoner by Death Eaters and that he planned to betray them in order to get her back.
Death Eaters ambushing the trio while they were inside the Lovegood home
However, in attempting to capture them, Xenophilius made the Erumpent horn in his living room (which he had insisted was a Snorkack horn, much to Hermione's annoyance) explode, giving the trio the chance to hide just as Death Eaters Selwyn and Travers arrived. They threatened to kill Luna if they found that Xenophilius had lied about Harry Potter's presence in his home. In a remarkable show of mental and magical dexterity, Hermione concocted the trio's escape while safeguarding Ron's feigned illness and allowing the Death Eaters to glimpse Harry, so that they would not carry out their threat to kill Luna.
In the spring of 1998, Harry accidentally triggered the Taboo jinx and Hermione, Harry, and Ron were tracked down and captured by a group of Snatchers, which included the werewolf Fenrir Greyback. Greyback had developed cannibalistic tendencies when out of werewolf form and was eager to bite Hermione. After a brief and violent interrogation by the Snatchers, the captives were brought to Malfoy Manor and turned over to Bellatrix Lestrange. Bellatrix immediately panicked at the sight of Godric Gryffindor's Sword and incapacitated the Snatchers with ease, as she was too quick for them. She then ordered them moved to the courtyard where she would deal with them later.
Bellatrix Lestrange torturing Hermione in Malfoy Manor
Bellatrix gave away that what she believed to be the sword and another Horcrux were hidden in her vault at Gringotts in her panic. She proceeded to isolate Hermione and then brutally torture her with the Cruciatus Curse repeatedly along with taking a dagger and cutting the word Mudblood into her arm as interrogation methods. Ron (who had tried to take her place unsuccessfully) was reduced to sobs from hearing Hermione scream in pain. However, Hermione came up with a fake story that the sword was merely a copy of the real thing; a lie that Harry persuaded the imprisoned goblin Griphook to go along with.
Hermione was soon tortured into unconsciousness. With Hermione's moans and screams of pain echoing throughout the manor, Harry and Ron saw no possible hope left. Suddenly, Dobby came to the rescue of the prisoners in the dungeon, with audible crack as he apparated. Harry and Ron fought off Peter Pettigrew, who had been sent to investigate the noise. Harry snarled at him that Pettigrew owed him for Harry's sparing of his life with Lupin and Sirius, and the momentary relaxing of Pettigrew as a result caused him to be choked to death by his own silver hand (created by Voldemort) for showing Harry mercy.
Bellatrix holding her silver knife to Hermione's throat
They raced upstairs and were forced to drop their wands when Bellatrix held a silver knife to Hermione's throat. Bellatrix cut through some skin, leaving a thin cut on the front of Hermione's neck. Right when Bellatrix was about to slit her throat, Dobby returned and sent the chandelier crashing to the floor, knocking Bellatrix over and enabling Harry to grab their wands from Draco and Disapparate with Hermione, Ron, Griphook, and Dobby to Shell Cottage, where Bill and Fleur Weasley took up residence after their marriage. Unfortunately, Dobby was killed during this escape, by a knife Bellatrix threw.
The trio speaking with Griphook about what lay within the Lestrange vault
Hermione, Harry, and Ron stayed at Shell Cottage for some time, whilst Fleur helped Hermione recover from her trauma. Ron didn't leave Hermione's bedside throughout this time. The trio formed a plan to break into the Lestrange Vault at Gringotts to retrieve the Horcrux Helga Hufflepuff's Cup, with the reluctant assistance of Griphook. The goblin only agreed to help them in exchange for Gryffindor's Sword; although lothe to lose it, Hermione was strongly against deceiving or double-crossing Griphook, who was startled by the care she and Harry had shown for house-elves,since most wizards do not think highly of non-human beings. The trio reluctantly agreed to Griphook's terms.
Ron and Hermione, disguised as Dragomir Despard and Bellatrix Lestrange
Once more, Hermione used Polyjuice Potion, containing Bellatrix's hair. She was also forced to use Bellatrix's wand, as her wand had been confiscated by Snatchers. She very much disliked this, as the wand in question had caused so much suffering, such as contributing to Sirius' murder. She stated that the wand felt wrong and Harry speculated that it was because Hermione had not won the wand's intelligence.
It was determined that Hermione was "too polite" to really impersonate Bellatrix, as she did not treat those around her like scum. Despite this, the group managed to get into the vault, mainly because of Harry's use of the Imperius Curse. After many harrowing challenges, and Griphook betraying them out of a belief that they would not have kept to their agreement, Hermione, Ron, and Harry escaped on the back of the half-blind dragon that was guarding the vault, with another Horcrux in their possession.
Hermione and Ron destroying the cup in the Chamber of Secrets
The trio finally returned to Hogwarts on 2 May 1998, with the assistance of Aberforth Dumbledore, after Harry had a vision that the remaining Horcrux they had not identified (but suspected was something formerly belonging to Rowena Ravenclaw) was hidden at the school. They were reunited with their friends in the reformed Dumbledore's Army, who declared their wish to fight the encroaching Death Eater army. Whilst Harry and Luna went to Ravenclaw Tower, Hermione and Ron retrieved Basilisk fangs from the Chamber of Secrets in order to use them to destroy Horcruxes, and Hermione destroyed Hufflepuff's Cup.
Soon after reuniting with Harry, Ron expressed concern for the house-elves in the Hogwarts kitchens, prompting Hermione to kiss him for the very first time. Ron responded with great enthusiasm, but they quickly broke apart when Harry reminded them of their objective.
Hermione and Ron running from the towering flames of Fiendfyre
The trio then entered the Room of Requirement in search for Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem, but were ambushed by Draco Malfoy, Gregory Goyle, and Vincent Crabbe. Hermione dodged a Killing Curse and managed to stun Goyle, and then she and Ron dragged him out of the room on a broomstick as it went up in flames due to Crabbe's cursed Fiendfyre, which also destroyed the Horcrux. Harry rescued Draco, but Crabbe was killed by his creation.
Harry, Hermione and Ron then witnessed the death of Fred Weasley, which devastated them all. Despite their grief, the trio continued with the effort to track down Nagini, the last Horcrux (that they knew of). On their way, Hermione incapacitated two Death Eaters who were pursuing her, Harry and Ron, and blasted Fenrir Greyback away from an injured Lavender Brown. Lavender unfortunately still tragically died afterwards from her injuries.
The trio was swarmed by Dementors and all had difficulty summoning their Patronuses because of the horror of their recent experiences, but Luna, Ernie Macmillan, and Seamus Finnigan came to their assistance. Under Harry's Invisibility Cloak, the three made their way to the Shrieking Shack, where they witnessed Voldemort have Nagini kill Severus Snape, as he had (ultimately incorrectly) assumed that the Elder Wand's loyalty lay with Snape.
During the brief pause in fighting, when Voldemort issued an ultimatum to Harry, Hermione comforted Ginny Weasley over Fred's death. When Voldemort and his army approached with a supposedly dead Harry, Hermione screamed in horror and denial.
Hermione witnessing Harry's final defeat of Lord Voldemort
The Battle of Hogwarts soon resumed, and Hermione fought Bellatrix Lestrange alongside Ginny and Luna, despite being hindered by using Bellatrix's own wand against her. When Bellatrix nearly killed Ginny, Molly Weasley took over the fight and killed Bellatrix. Hermione witnessed Harry's final defeat of Lord Voldemort, and she and Ron reached him first, overjoyed. Hermione survived the battle relatively unscathed, only suffering minor injuries and burns she received from entering the Lestranges' Vault shortly before the battle.
Hermione with her husband and two children
At some point, Hermione found her parents in Australia and restored their memories. In 1998, Hermione went back to Hogwarts to attain her N.E.W.T.s. She was the only one of the trio to do this, as Harry and Ron opted to join the Auror department and help round up remaining Death Eaters. By returning to Hogwarts she demonstrated how important schooling was to her.
Hermione meeting the student
On 19 September 2010, her birthday, Hermione went back to Hogwarts in reminiscence. She visited the Library and met an unidentified student. She noticed the book they were holding and told her story that involved it.
Hermione with others at the end of the battle
Hermione also came to Hogwarts's aid when the school fell under attack by Dementors and other Dark creatures, and joined the big battle at the end. When it was over, she discussed the possible cause of the attacks with Harry, Ron and the Hogwarts staff, noting that the other creatures couldn't have been swayed by the Dementors to join the attacks, since they were not easily affected by them as humans would be.
Hermione and Harry meeting the student at Zonko's
When Ron Weasley asked Hermione to help him sell joke products and compete against his brother George, who had already invited Harry, she couldn't say no, and so she came to Zonko's Joke Shop when they were having a sale there, though she didn't really care for pranks and found that she was not good at promoting the products with passion. She was having a conversation with Harry in the shop when they met the unidentified student, who was surprised to see Hermione was the important guest that Ron claimed to have invited, seeing as she didn't seem to be the kind of person that was interested in joke products. Hermione agreed and talked about her feelings with them, and gave them some tokens to buy products with to save herself from doing her promotion speech.
By 2017, Hermione and Ron were married with two children: Rose and Hugo Granger-Weasley. She had several nieces and nephews through her marriage to Ron. Hermione was also the godmother of Harry and Ginny Potter's eldest child, James Sirius.
Newspaper report on the trio joining the Ministry
Hermione attained a high position in the Ministry of Magic, first through the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. There, she continued her work with S.P.E.W., working for the rights of underprivileged non-humans such as house-elves. She then went on to become Deputy Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, and assisted the Minister for Magic Kingsley Shacklebolt in eradicating the old laws biased in favour of pure-bloods. Along with Harry and Ron, she helped to revolutionise the Ministry and reform the wizarding world. At some point, Hermione, Harry, and Ron were all featured on Chocolate Frog Cards for their accomplishments.
Hermione also eventually translated The Tales of Beedle the Bard from the original, which had been written in runes and which Albus Dumbledore bequeathed to her in his will in 1997. Her new translation was published in 2008 and included notes on each tale written by Dumbledore before his death; these notes were lent to Hermione by her former professor, Hogwarts Headmistress Minerva McGonagall.
Both Hermione and Ron attended the 2014 Quidditch World Cup and sat in VIP Box Two. Rita Skeeter noted that Ron had become catatonic at the appearance of the Bulgarian Veela and Hermione had to elbow him in the ribs.
On 1 September 2017, Hermione and Ron brought their children to King's Cross Station to see Rose off for her first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and met Harry, Ginny, and their three children there.
At some point between 2019 and 2020, Hermione was elected as Minister for Magic. In the summer of 2020, Hermione had to visit Harry to ask him to complete his paperwork and the other tasks he was yet to do. She talked about her concerns for recent activity similar to ones which happened when Voldemort was alive. Harry reminded her that he did just find a Time-Turner and he would get round to the rest of the tasks in his own time. They agreed that the Time-Turner should be destroyed and Hermione hid it away.
A few months later, Hermione was returning to her office when she was stopped by Ron, who was really Albus Potter transfigured to look like Ron. Albus was trying to stall her while Scorpius Malfoy and Delphi stole the Time-Turner. Hermione found Ron annoying although he stalled her long enough for the others to find the Time-Turner and they left.
Hermione had found out about Harry's nightmares and how his scar was hurting again and she called a meeting. However, no one thought it was a threat.
Hermione and Ron standing in her office at the Ministry of Magic
Hermione's life was changed by Albus and Scorpius when they meddled with time. In one alternate reality, she did not marry Ron and became the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts. In another alternate reality where Harry died, Hermione was in hiding as a member of what remained of Dumbledore's Army with Ron and Severus Snape. When Scorpius turned up with information about the original timeline where they won, Hermione agreed to help put time right again by time-travelling to the moment Scorpius changed time and use a Shield Charm to stop him. Hermione was the one to use the charm first, but when they returned to the present, it was still changed. They were attacked by Dementors and Hermione and Ron professed their love for each other and sacrificed their souls to the Dementors to give Scorpius time to escape.
Hermione Granger as a Defence Against the Dark Arts professor in the alternate timeline
When time was right again, Hermione visited Hogwarts to attend a meeting with Professor McGonagall. Hermione, along with Ron, Harry, Ginny and Draco were very forgiving of what Albus and Scorpius did, but McGonagall reminded them of great dangers that happened, and could still have been, because they meddled with time.
When Albus and Scorpius were kidnapped by Delphi and made to travel in time again to 31 October 1981, Hermione travelled in time again with Ron, Harry, Ginny and Draco Malfoy to save them. Hermione helped transfigure Harry to look like Voldemort to trick Delphi who hopes to save him, and then later helped Harry duel Delphi. She and Draco then apprehended her and took her back to the present where she was sent to Azkaban.
During the Calamity, Hermione acted as one of the apparent leading members of the newly-created Statute of Secrecy Task Force and would introduce members who had proven to be qualified to Professions after complimenting on their impressive combination of determination and ability. She would also help the members personally, instructing those who pursued a professorship on the Proficiency Charm after returning from a sojourn overseas while giving Aurors a retrospective regarding her experiences in the Second Wizarding War to help them in fighting Death Eaters.
In the spring of 2021, The Unforgivable threatened Harry Potter and Hermione after the two began wrenching control of Calamity surges away from the cabal. The two feared that their children would be targeted, but Harry insisted on continuing to fight against the Unforgivable. Harry redirected a Calamity surge and controlled it using memories of the Marauders. When Minerva McGonagall was uncharacteristically late in reporting to the SOS Task Force, Constance Pickering, Harry Potter, and Hermione Granger feared she had been attacked. By April, it became apparent that while Minerva was unharmed, Ginny had been attacked and Ron had been abducted.
Following their attack on Harry's wife and Hermione's husband, the Unforgivable unleashed a surge of Dragon Adversaries. While this was disastrous, it allowed Harry to tap into somebody's memory of being forced to abduct Ron. Shortly after, the Unforgivable unleashed a surge of Foundables related to Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes where Ron worked. While the Unforgivable succeeded in intimidating Harry and Hermione, Harry even enlisted the help of MACUSA in the hopes of finding his best friend, this attack only made Hermione even more determined to bring the cabal to justice. The Unforgivable began a campaign of harassment and manipulation to secure their position preceding negotiations for Ron's returns, including implanting false memories in Molly Weasley of Ron crying and begging her to tell Harry and Hermione to listen to the Unforgivable so that he could return home. Molly instead instructed Hermione to "give them Hell".
By the end of April, the Unforgivable had delivered their list of demands via notes dispatched within Foundables. In exchange for Ron's safe return, they not only wanted full command of the Calamity but for London Five victim Kit Gerrard and the defector informant Flavius Flint to be delivered to them. Hermione decided that she and Constance should use Polyjuice Potion to take the places of Gerrard and Flint as a means to infiltrate the Unforgivable, with Harry delivering them in exchange for Ron. It seemed the Unforgivable were aware of this deception, as well as where the Ministry's defences were weakest, however.
Whilst duelling against members of the cabal, Constance was hit with a Blasting Curse but luckily came away with only mild burns. While Ron was recovering, albeit unconscious, the real Flavius and Kit were taken. When Constance returned from having her injuries healed at St Mungo's, she reported that Ron had woken up and his memories had been completely Obliviated, to the point where he could not even recognise his wife. Hermione wondered if everything, including rescuing Ron, had been part of the cabal's plans all along. She and Harry considered the possibility of a mole in the Ministry or a Legilimens among the Unforgivable's ranks.
In May 2021, Calamity surges surrounding baby magical creatures created the impression that the Unforgivable were involved in illegal poaching and trading of rare beasts. Fragments of a note apparently from Grim Fawley contained co-ordinates to a location in Cape Town, to where Harry Potter led a team of Aurors in order to stop a potential auction, and to find members of the cabal. Unfortunately, no auction took place, adding weight to the theory of a mole in the Ministry. The return of mountain troll and Acromantula fragments caused Ron Weasley to remember events from his past, though he still could not remember the names of people close to him. Following this, Hermione resorted to drugging various Ministry members with Truth Serum then erasing their memories of being interrogated by her. This method outed Gareth Greengrass as not only the mole but a high ranking member of the Unforgivable.
Hermione hoped that the detention of Gareth Greengrass would put a stop to the appearance of Adversaries, however instead the SOS Taskforce was inundated with an unprecedented surge of all known Feared Adversaries over the course of a week (14–21 July 2021). Hermione speculated that perhaps Greengrass was capable of manipulating the Calamity without a wand, though Constance thought it might be that Greengrass was not the one responsible. Hermione also claimed that "anyone who could bring Darkness like this into the world must be capable of powerful magic".
Following his detention, Gareth Greengrass repeatedly proclaimed innocence and his colleagues in the Department of Mysteries called for his release, even going so far as to accuse Harry and Hermione of using the Imperius Curse to obtain a false confession. As testimony procured under Veritaserum was inadmissible and there was no paper trail or actual evidence of Greengrass's involvement with the Unforgivable, Hermione turned her attention to helping Ron recover his memories of the 1992–1993 school year. During this time, an Auror discovered that Gareth's strange habit of delivering Interdepartmental Memos via owl was part of a ruse. Gareth's owl was a Transfigured potions cabinet containing Polyjuice Potion. When tested, those who imbibed the potions turned into Hermione  and the editor-in-chief of the Daily Prophet, linking Gareth Greengrass to the abductions of Ginny and Ron. A complication arose, however, when it became apparent one of the Polyjuice Potions had been tampered with during the month that Gareth was detained. Hermione concluded that this was part of an escape attempt and alerted Harry.
Gareth Greengrass was eventually caught out and taken into custody in an official capacity, but remained tight-lipped until Harry rose the issue of Gareth's daughter. It was discovered that Cereus Greengrass suffered a blood malediction. Gareth and Harry formed an Unbreakable Vow, sealed by Constance Pickering, whereby Harry would find a cure for Gareth's daughter and in turn Gareth would help Harry uncover the identities of the Unforgivable. Harry visited St Mungo's and placed a large donation, securing special care for Cereus. By the time he returned, however, Gareth Greengrass was dead. During these events, Hermione contemplated the likelihood of Gareth hiding information in their conversations, and concluded that Penelope Fawley might be trapped in an image much like Kit Gerrard had been. She went to check a photograph of Grim and Penelope that was on Gareth's desk, only to find it had gone missing. A mysterious male figure was implicated but not identified.
Hermione in her fifth year
Hermione had a light complexion, bright brown eyes, lots of bushy brown hair (once described as a "long mane of brown hair"), and — as a child — rather large front teeth.  She possessed a "bossy sort of voice" that would become slightly shrill when she was angry.
Hermione generally wore plain black work robes. Otherwise, she dressed casually. She usually kept her hair long and sometimes tied it back in a plait. Hermione never gave much attention to her appearance, usually hiding her potential to be considered extremely pretty under her bushy hairstyle and a large pile of books, which she kept slung on her back.
Hermione in her seventh and final year
In 1994, after Hermione was accidentally struck with a Densaugeo spell, Madam Pomfrey magically shrank her front teeth and told Hermione to alert her when her teeth had returned to their original size. Hermione deviously let the spell continue a little longer, evening them out and making it unnecessary for her to receive the braces that her parents — both dentists — had originally intended for her. Hermione later confessed that she had previously considered fixing her teeth with magic but resisted out of respect for her parents.
During the Yule Ball, Hermione revealed that when she put her mind to it, she could look truly beautiful — she used Sleekeazy's Hair Potion to fix her hair, making it sleek and shiny, and twisted up into an elegant knot at the back of her head. She wore robes made of a floaty, periwinkle-blue material, and she held herself differently. Harry himself failed to recognise her initially, and was shocked when he did, for she didn't look at all like her usual self. Even Pansy Parkinson gaped at Hermione when she saw her, and Draco seemed unable to find an insult to throw at her. A similar transformation was seen during the wedding of Bill and Fleur — her hair was again "sleek and shiny", and she wore a floaty, lilac-coloured dress with matching high heels.
Hermione was known to read for recreation and for fun
Hermione was noted for being both extremely intellectual curious and very hard-working, coming out on top in most of her classes and continuously aiding Harry and Ron in their adventures. She was so studious that the Ministry allowed her a Time-Turner in her third year, a device that rewinds time so that she could take extra courses. Because of her efficiency and compassion, Hermione often had time to do hobby work on the side, such as preparing a defence for Buckbeak to save him from execution and creating S.P.E.W., an organisation promoting the freedom of house-elves. Such acts demonstrated her social conscience and tenacity.
Hermione's enthusiasm in class
Unlike most wizards who depended solely on their magical ability, Hermione readily relied on logic, which often helped her to cleverly deduce information that many others missed, such as Remus Lupin's lycanthropy. However, her emphasis on logic made her sceptical about accepting anything without proof, as opposed to Harry who would come to intuitive conclusions, such as completely dismissing the idea of the Deathly Hallows, refusing to believe in them without physical evidence. Hermione's logic had limits, putting her beliefs before all else at the same time in a way that made her ignore reality when it contradicted what she believed, no matter how strong or overwhelming the evidence was. An example of this was the reality of the house-elves, she insisted that they wanted to be free, have wages and only seemed happy because they were under educated and brainwashed when her friends told her that they like their lot in life even after the elves themselves told her they were happy and didn't want her help because they don't usually think the way humans do. Even though Hermione knew a lot about the wizarding world, she was not well informed about the children's culture of the wizarding world until Albus Dumbledore gave her his copy of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, as she grew up in a Muggle household and did not know she was a witch until her pre-teens.
Hermione was quite blunt with her opinions, sometimes to the point of being tactless. For example, her attempt to comfort Lavender Brown about the death of her rabbit did not go over well, and her honesty when dealing with centaurs in 1996 nearly landed her and Harry in serious trouble. Despite this, Hermione was generally sensitive to others' emotions and would lie when she had to, though she wasn't a skilled liar. She also gave her friends advice rather often, such as in trying to make Harry understand Cho Chang's behaviour on their date, and in helping Ginny deal with her crush on Harry. These actions once prompted Ron to advise her to write a book to translate all the "mad things" girls do so that boys could understand them.
Hermione was very responsible, a strict perfectionist and well put-together who often attempted to act as the voice of reason among her more impulsive friends, to varying levels of success. These traits led to her being made a prefect during her fifth year. Throughout her entire school career, Hermione was insistent on order and steadfastly devoted to the rules, often at the expense of her popularity. Her sense of humour was limited, frequently expressing disapproval over Fred and George's practical jokes and threatened to put them in detention for selling prank items in the common room.
Hermione arguing with Harry Potter over the Half-blood Prince's copy of Advanced Potion-Making
Hermione was very determined and focused, in that she "always [kept] her attention focused on the job that must be done". Her refusal to break under torture shows her strength of willpower. She wasn't afraid to stand up to her friends when she thought it was in their best interests, or when she felt they were wrong; risking to anger Harry by getting his Firebolt confiscated because she feared it might be jinxed, and arguing with both him and Ginny over his use of the shady Half Blood Prince's textbook.
In spite of her strait-laced disposition, she wasn't above using coercion and threats to get what she wanted, achieve results or protect herself and those she cared about in the long run. This is evidenced by her blackmailing Rita Skeeter into writing a good article about Harry, as well as slapping Draco Malfoy when he insulted Hagrid and drawing her wand on him, using a Confundus Charm on Cormac McLaggen for insulting her friends and placing a jinx on the list of DA members that would cause them to sprout boils all over their face in the word "SNEAK" if they betrayed the organisation. Malfoy, Rita Skeeter and Marietta Edgecombe all served as examples of Hermione's ferocity.
Hermione urging Harry and Ron to take studying seriously
Because of her opinionated, interfering nature, Hermione had the reputation for being a bossy know-it-all. Her sometimes abrasive attitude masked deep insecurities and fear of failure, as personified by her Boggart. She felt the need to prove herself, perhaps partly because of how many people in wizarding society looked down on Muggle-borns. However, she didn't let anyone bully her about this and ignored bigots like Draco Malfoy. Despite her growing confidence in her abilities, Hermione wasn't arrogant or conceited, and helped her classmates with their schoolwork whenever she could. In her fifth year, she also became one of the few people to call Voldemort by name.
Though she initially showed a tendency toward mild panic in sudden situations, in time she was able to overcome this trait of hers, and demonstrated her bravery and extreme loyalty to her friends many times when facing danger, risking her life frequently to help them and standing by Harry even when no one else did. Although she wasn't as short-tempered as her friends, Hermione displayed a formidable fury on several occasions, such as slapping Draco Malfoy in defence of Hagrid, sabotaging Cormac McLaggen's tryout as a Keeper for the Gryffindor Quidditch team after he insulted Ron and Ginny, conjuring a flock of canaries to attack Ron in their sixth year and physically attacking him when he briefly abandoned her and Harry during their hunt for Horcruxes. She also tended to be rather argumentative, a trait most evident in her interactions with Ron.
Hermione's corporeal Patronus (form of an otter)
Hermione proved to be an extremely powerful and talented young witch. Even before she began her education at Hogwarts, she practised some simple spells which all worked. Remus Lupin claimed that Hermione was the cleverest witch of her age he had ever met. Her magical capability easily surpassed almost every single student in her year, challenged only by a select few.
Hermione being the first in her class to master the Levitation Charm
Hermione erasing Antonin Dolohov's memories
Hermione and Ron casting the Stunning Spell at Death Eaters during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries
Hermione conjuring a wreath of flowers in Godric's Hollow, Christmas 1997
Hermione blasting Fenrir Greyback, after he killed Lavender Brown during the Battle of Hogwarts
Hermione freezing Neville Longbottom with the Full Body-Bind Curse in her first year
Hermione attending Potions class in her sixth year
Hermione Granger handling a Mandrake in a second year Herbology class
Hermione healing a Splinched Ron with Essence of Dittany in 1997
Hermione's first wand
Crookshanks
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
Hogwarts: A History (Hermione's favourite book)
Hermione in her dress robes
Hermione's Yule Ball earrings
The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore
Bellatrix Lestrange's first wand
Mrs Granger, her mother
Mr and Mrs Granger were Muggle dentists who seemed proud of their witch daughter. They appeared to be accepting of the wizarding world, as they went shopping with Hermione in Diagon Alley and allowed her to spend several holidays with the Weasley family, but did not approve of their daughter using magic as a quick-fix, as indicated by their not allowing Hermione to magically fix her teeth. They correspond by owl post with their daughter throughout the school year, but other than one holiday in France with her parents, Hermione spent almost all of her time in the wizarding world. In 1995, she planned to go skiing with them during the Christmas holidays, but ended up going to 12 Grimmauld Place to try to cheer Harry up instead. Hermione told her parents that the reason for her cancelling was to study for exams, indicating that her parents expected her to do well in school and were probably not aware of the extent of their daughter's involvement in activities relating to the Second Wizarding War.
Mr Granger, her father
To protect them during the height of the war, Hermione modified her parents' memories in 1997 to make them believe they were entirely different people, and they left the country. After the war, she found them in Australia and restored their memories.
Hermione hugging Rose before Rose departs for school
After the Second Wizarding War, Hermione had two children with Ron Weasley: a daughter named Rose and a son named Hugo.
Rose started her first year at Hogwarts in 2017, along with her cousin, Albus. Ron stated that Rose had inherited her mother's brains. Hermione was probably very close to Rose because she was also described as smart, yet not a complete know-it-all.
Hugo was born in 2006 or 2007. He most likely inherited his father's Quidditch skills, as he was noted to fly a lot with his cousins Albus Potter and James Potter. He also appeared to have a quiet demeanour.
The Potter children, some of Hermione's nieces and nephews
As four of Ron Weasley's five surviving siblings were married by 2017, Hermione had quite a few nieces and nephews through her husband: Harry and Ginny had three children (James, Albus and Lily), as did Bill and Fleur (Victoire, Dominique and Louis), while George and Angelina Johnson had a son and a daughter (Fred and Roxanne), and Percy Weasley had two daughters (Molly and Lucy) with his wife, Audrey. Victoire Weasley, one of Fleur and Bill's daughters, was seen kissing Teddy Lupin at King's Cross Station, by James Potter, Hermione's nephew and godson. Hermione visited them all on many occasions. It can be assumed that she was closest with Harry's children.
The Weasley family, her future in-laws
Because of her friendships with Ron and Ginny Weasley, Hermione became friendly with the entire Weasley family. She spent a portion of many of her summer holidays at their home of the Burrow, and attended some family outings with them, such as shopping for school supplies in Diagon Alley and attending the 1994 Quidditch World Cup with them. Arthur Weasley was fascinated by the Muggle world and thus Hermione's background, and even invited Hermione's parents for a drink upon first meeting them. Molly Weasley was fond of Hermione, though she treated her coldly for a brief time after Rita Skeeter printed lies about Hermione toying with the hearts of Harry Potter and Viktor Krum, much to Hermione's bewilderment. After Harry explained that the stories were false, Mrs Weasley once again warmed up to Hermione. Also, she and Percy Weasley were considered to be on good terms until their fight over elf rights.
Fred and George Weasley, her friends and future brothers-in-law
Fred and George Weasley seemed to regard Hermione and Harry almost like other younger siblings, teasing them as well as being protective of them. When Draco Malfoy called Hermione a "Mudblood" in 1992, the twins were outraged, and attempted to attack him. Although Hermione disapproved of some of their antics, trying to use her status as a prefect to keep them in line, she still got on well with them. Hermione once argued with them that the Ageing Potion they planned on using to trick the age line protecting the Goblet of Fire wouldn't work because Dumbledore would have already thought of a foolish ageing potion. They didn't listen and tried to cross the line which resulted in them being thrown back and grow long, white beards.The only time she was notably angry with them was when they tested out their Skiving Snackboxes on unsuspecting first year students; though the twins initially scoffed at her concerns and her ability to make them stop, they backed down when she threatened to tell their mother.
However, Hermione still admired the cleverness and creativity of their spell work, once remarking that they could do some "extraordinary magic," which Fred was flattered enough by to offer Hermione material from their joke shop free of charge. Fred and George also tried to get Hermione to relax, joking around with her about things such as their late uncle Bilius's penchant for making mischief at weddings. Hermione was devastated when Fred was killed during the Battle of Hogwarts. Hermione was not as close to the other Weasley siblings, though she was invited to Bill's wedding to Fleur Delacour in 1997.
With her marriage to Ron, Hermione became a part of the Weasley family herself.
Fleur Delacour, her future sister-in-law
When Hermione first met Fleur Delacour, an incredibly beautiful, French, part-Veela witch, in 1994, during the Triwizard Tournament. Hermione disliked Fleur almost immediately, as she was given to fussily and loudly criticising nearly everything at Hogwarts, from the weather, to the decoration and food. The fact that Ron had a little bit of a crush on Fleur didn't help, but he eventually got over it.
Hermione, like Ginny and Mrs Weasley, was infuriated by Fleur's arrogance and constant complaining when Bill Weasley sent Fleur, his then fiancée, to the Burrow to get to know his family. However, when Fleur responded to Bill becoming permanently disfigured by Fenrir Greyback with indignant denial that Bill's appearance would in any way effect their marital plans, Hermione most likely set her feelings aside.
Despite seeming rather inconsiderate and self-centred, Fleur proved to be courageous and ultimately caring, even selfless, in her own way. She put her life in danger by posing as one of Harry's decoys in the Battle of the Seven Potters, and after the Battle of Malfoy Manor, Hermione, Harry and Ron, along with Luna Lovegood, Dean Thomas, and an injured Garrick Ollivander and Griphook, stayed with Bill and Fleur for a month at Shell Cottage, where Fleur took care of them all like a mother. Later, Fleur became Hermione's sister-in-law through her marriage to Bill Weasley, and Hermione's marriage to Ron Weasley.
Ron Weasley, the love of her life and father to her children
Ronald Weasley was, essentially, the love of Hermione's life. Although their relationship would have many ups and downs, Hermione and Ron Weasley were good friends for most of their years at Hogwarts, and of course, were best friends with Harry Potter, who was usually a mediator in their disputes. They tended to argue frequently, though they usually got over their arguments, which tended to be minor or about trivial issues, although there were a few times when it seemed as if their friendship would be irreparable. As they grew older and matured, Ron and Hermione tended to fight less often and become more in touch with their feelings for each other. Hermione sometimes had the tendency of calling Ron "Ronald". Their first major falling-out was in their third year, when Ron accused Hermione's pet cat Crookshanks of eating his pet rat Scabbers.
Hints of her feelings for Ron were shown as early as their first year, when she was badly hurt emotionally when he made fun of her for not having friends due to her bookish and bossy nature. According to Neville she spent the whole afternoon crying in the loo before the incident with the troll took place. In their third year Ron saw Sirius Black standing over him with a knife, Hermione was shocked and scared the most and even cried. They were both very awkward and embarrassed at times, being insecure with their own feelings for each other. Ron was used to always being in Harry's shadow and did not want the girl he loved to be also taken from him by his best friend. Hermione was greatly offended when Ron initially didn't ask her to the Yule Ball as his partner until he got rejected by Fleur Delacour. When it is revealed Viktor Krum was Hermione's date, a jealous Ron got into a heated row with Hermione, which she ended by making clear that she would go as Ron's date in future if only he asked her as his first choice. Ron and Hermione's relationship again suffered when Ron began dating Lavender Brown in 1996, though the two reconciled after Ron was accidentally poisoned, leaving Hermione shaken. Ron's relationship with Lavender ended soon after, and both he and Hermione were more content for it.
Hermione and Ron expressing their affection for each other
Hints of romantic feelings between the two could be seen as early as their second year, as Ron was particularly protective of Hermione and disgusted by her crush on Gilderoy Lockhart. Also During the second year when Malfoy insulted Hermione calling her a mudblood an enranged Ron attempted to punish him with a curse, but as his wand was broken, the curse backfired on him injuring him. During the Yule Ball in 1994, Hermione was affronted by Ron's clumsy attempt to ask her to go with him, and Ron was jealous of her attendance with Viktor Krum; this jealousy would persist for years. In turn, Hermione was jealous of Ron's crush on Fleur Delacour, though expressed it in a subtler way.
In her fourth year while Harry and Ron were not in speaking terms following Harry's name coming out of the goblet of fire, Hermione defended Ron to Harry reminding him that despite him not wanting it he always gets all the attention while Ron had to live up competing with his five older brothers and Ron is always made to feel second to him.
In their fifth year, Hermione kissed Ron on the cheek before the Quidditch Tournament, to which he reacted by being "puzzled" and touching the spot where she kissed him. During Gryffindor's Quidditch try-outs in their sixth year, Hermione also Confunded Cormac McLaggen to increase Ron's chances of being made the team's Keeper. Also, Hermione became jealous (but she tried to conceal it) when Ron began dating Lavender Brown and kissing her frequently.
Ron and Hermione spending time together during the Hocrux hunt
By the summer of 1997, the two were closer than ever and "sort of" together, according to Harry. They danced together at Bill and Fleur's wedding, and were generally kinder to one another. During the hunt for the Horcruxes, Ron comforted Hermione several times by putting his arm around her, and Harry believed that they might have fallen asleep holding hands. When Harry was briefly shouting at Hermione who was confronting him aboust his fallout with Remus Lupin and Harry was shouting at her, Ron defended Hermione from Harry by angrily saying "'Don't you start on her!' Hermione was extremely upset when Ron temporarily left her and Harry, crying often, and she was absolutely furious with him when he returned. It was also revealed, through a vision caused by the locket Horcrux, that one of Ron's deepest fears was that Hermione preferred Harry to him.
Ron and Hermione's first kiss during the Battle of Hogwarts
The two eventually made up, and Hermione initiated a kiss during the Battle of Hogwarts, when Ron suggested saving the house-elves and not ordering them to fight for wizards. Hermione, who had been a promoter of house-elf rights since her fourth year and even started her own society to help house-elves (the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare) was so delighted at Ron's unexpected display of sensitivity that she kissed him on the lips, something that was met with surprise, eagerness and enthusiasm, but caused the pair to become embarrassed after Harry asked them to "hold it in".
Some people had expected Ron and Hermione to become more than friends much sooner and Harry Potter had even thought that they would start dating in their sixth year. In the fifth year while Hermione and Harry were arguing about Harry's decision to talk to Sirius, Hermione asked Ron's advice in a manner that "reminded irresistibly of Mrs Weasley appealing to her husband during Harry's first dinner in Grimmauld Place."  In 1997, when the Trio was captured by Snatchers and brought to Malfoy Manor, Fenrir Greyback mistakenly called Ron Hermione's boyfriend when she tried to protect him. Also, Ron screamed and yelled and was in terrible distress when he heard Hermione being tortured by Bellatrix Lestrange in Malfoy Manor. The pair eventually married and had two children, Rose and Hugo Weasley.
They were rather young when they were married, and their relationship evolved over time. By the time that Hermione was elected Minister For Magic, Ron had become more the stay-at-home-dad due to the convenience it placed on their respective careers, as Ron's entrepreneurial exploits could be more easily conducted than Hermione's careers in law enforcement and eventually politics. Their combative relationship eventually subsided for a more affectionate one, as Ron was seen to kiss Hermione in public extremely often as noted by their nephew, Albus Potter. Hermione was initially wary when Ron spoke of how early they had married and was jokingly suspicious that he wanted a break from their marriage, but was deeply moved when Ron told her that he wanted to renew their vows and marry her all over again after reading about how Muggles occasionally did such a thing. Hermione was so touched by her husband's suggestion that they began to kiss passionately over her mountain of paperwork in her office. This shows how Ron had matured into a startling romantic over the years and how it helped to temper their initially rocky relationship that begun 31 years prior.
Viktor Krum, her friend and Yule Ball date
Viktor Krum, a renowned professional Quidditch player and student of Durmstrang, came to Hogwarts in 1994 for the Triwizard Tournament, in which he was a Champion. He took to following Hermione into the library, watching her and trying to "pluck up the courage" to speak to her. Eventually, he asked her to be his date to the Yule Ball, and Hermione accepted. Their arrival together caused something of a stir, given Viktor's fame and Hermione's exceptional, and rather unexpected, beauty.
Hermione was Viktor's 'hostage' during the Second Task of the Tournament. After he pulled her from the lake, Viktor told Hermione that he had never felt about someone the way he felt about her, and invited her to visit him in Bulgaria over the summer. At some point, it is alleged by Ginny Weasley during a confrontation with her brother Ron, that he and Hermione shared a kiss during that period. Whether or not Ginny was just trying to get under Ron's skin or if this actually happened is unknown. What is known is that their relationship never became serious enough for her to visit him in Bulgaria, they kept in contact through letters over the years. They met again at the wedding of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour in 1997, where Viktor complimented Hermione and was disappointed to learn that she had "sort of" begun a romance with Ron Weasley.
Harry Potter, her best friend and future co-brother-in-law
Hermione became friends with Harry Potter after they as well as Ron Weasley took down a Mountain Troll together in their first year. They tended to get along very well on a day-to-day basis, though Harry occasionally became annoyed by Hermione's nagging, while she occasionally became annoyed by his lack of discipline and conviction in his schoolwork. Their only notable row was over Hermione getting Harry's Firebolt confiscated in their third year, which she felt it might be a trap. Harry and Ron reconciled with Hermione after Hagrid scolded them for their treatment of her. Harry and Hermione were quite similar in their dour, brooding tendencies in times of trouble, and often needed Ron's humour and levity to counterbalance their intense personalities.
Harry, Hermione, and Ron spent nearly all their time together during their years at Hogwarts, and shortly afterwards, Hermione led Harry through time-travel, and together they rescued Sirius Black and Buckbeak; Hermione breaking the rules of using her Time-Turner, something she admitted was incredibly dangerous, demonstrated the strength of her friendship with Harry. The following year, Hermione was the only student who believed Harry when he told her he had not put his name in the Goblet of Fire, and spent much of the Triwizard Tournament teaching Harry useful spells and trying to reconcile him and Ron.
While Harry and Hermione typically argued less than Ron and Hermione, they had the most philosophical and moral disagreements with one another. Ron typically deferred to Harry's opinions on important decisions, and tends to hold back when Hermione confronts Harry about them, letting them battle it out. For example, Harry and Hermione fought about how best to deal with Dolores Umbridge when she infiltrated Hogwarts, whether or not Sirius's judgement could be trusted, whether or not Harry should have tried to use Occlumency to block out his mental link with Voldemort, whether Dumbledore's past made him an unworthy leader, and whether they should have pursued the Hallows or the Horcruxes. Hermione expressed immense displeasure to Harry during the sixth year after he started obtaining better results than her at Potion by the help of the "Half Blood Prince's potions book". Harry tended to be dismissive of Hermione's opinions, and could even grow angry when she tried to argue her point, but many times realised later that she was right. For example, Harry was often dismissive of Hermione's insistence that all house-elves deserve respect and kindness, and was neglectful towards Kreacher because of his bigotry until he finally realised the horrifying nature of his enslavement.
Hermione protecting Harry, demonstrating her willingness to put his best interests first
While Harry tended to have more fun with Ron, Hermione was consistently his place of refuge when others abandoned him, from Ron's jealous withdrawal during the Triwizard Tournament, to Harry's discovery of Dumbledore's past during the war. Despite their differences, Harry and Hermione tended to support one another at the expense of others when necessary. Hermione repeatedly chose to help and support Harry in his fight against Voldemort, regardless of personal cost. Examples include breaking the laws regarding time travel in order to help him save Sirius, teaching him defensive magic in preparation for the Triwizard Tournament, blackmailing Rita Skeeter in order to give him a way to tell the public about Voldemort's return, protecting him from torture by Dolores Umbridge, and Obliviating her parents in order to go on the run with him. She notably chose to support him even when Ron did not. Smaller acts of friendship included helping him with homework and cheering him on at Quidditch games.
Harry was similarly protective and supportive of Hermione. Much like Hermione, Harry was often a place of refuge for Hermione when others leave her. Harry often comforted Hermione and showed her kindness and care when she was upset. On the occasion that Buckbeak the Hippogriff was executed, Harry consoled her as she cries.
He was also quick to defend Hermione from Cho Chang, Draco Malfoy, and others who insulted her for her looks or parentage, which showed his pride in her intellect on numerous occasions. He consistently praised her intelligence and magical skills to teachers, asked her for help in dangerous situations, and defended her against bullies. On one occasion, he even choose to side with her over Ron when was dating Lavender. But he expressed outrage when Hermione went to Slughorn's party with Cormac McLaggen.
Harry also defended Hermione physically on instinct. This showed his willingness to put her before himself as well as his unconditional brotherly love for her. For example, when Lupin turned into a werewolf and attacked Hermione and Harry in 1994, Harry shielded her from the danger.
Many people, including Ron, Cho Chang, Viktor Krum, Mrs Weasley, have occasionally mistaken Harry and Hermione's relationship to be a romantic one, given their closeness and expressions of physical affection, such as kisses on the cheek, staying by one another's bedsides when hurt or injured, embracing each other, and holding hands. Harry eventually explained to Ron that he and Hermione were like brother and sister. They shared similar upbringings as being only children raised in the Muggle world, and showed each other unconditional love despite their many differences and disagreements. During their time alone during the war, Ron and Harry maintained a distance, with Hermione mostly crying for Ron and Harry observing Ginny's dot at the Marauder's map. They did exchange a comforting moment during their brief embrace after Harry visited his parent's grave.
Hermione and Harry remained best friends into adulthood, and eventually became co-siblings in-law when Hermione married Ron Weasley and Harry married Ginny Weasley. Hermione was also the aunt and godmother of Harry's three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus and Lily Luna. They were also coworkers for many years as employees of the Ministry of Magic in law enforcement.
It is interesting to note that Albus Dumbledore's final plan to defeat Lord Voldemort, in which Harry would learn the story of the Deathly Hallows in time to use them against Voldemort, revolved not only around Harry himself, but Hermione as well. Dumbledore knew that Harry was too passionate and angry to be able to keep from attempting to become Master of Death, and so entrusted The Tales of Beedle the Bard to Hermione, so that she would learn of the Hallows' symbol first and would be able to caution and guide Harry down the path of reason.
Ginny Weasley, her good friend and future sister-in-law
Ginny Weasley was Hermione's best female friend and Ginny's confidante. The two grew close when Hermione stayed in Ginny's room at the Burrow during her many summertime visits. Ginny was the only one Hermione told about being asked to the Yule Ball by Viktor Krum, while Hermione was the only one who knew that Ginny had been learning to fly in secret for years. She also gave Ginny advice about dealing with her feelings for Harry — advice that eventually led to the two dating, and eventually marrying.
Hermione comforted Ginny after an encounter with Dementors upset her in 1993, and after the death of her brother Fred in 1998. However, Hermione would not have been afraid to stand up to Ginny when she felt that Ginny was wrong. The two remained very close after the war and eventually became sisters-in-law when Hermione married Ron, making her an aunt to Ginny's three children, James, Albus, and Lily, as well as being chosen to be godmother to Ginny's eldest son James, and making Ginny Rose and Hugo's aunt and almost certainly Rose's godmother.
Neville Longbottom, her friend
Hermione was good friends with Neville Longbottom. They met on the train to Hogwarts during their first year and she helped him search for his toad Trevor. Hermione helped Neville many times with their school work, particularly with Potions, as Professor Snape noted that she was often "hissing instructions in his ear." In their fourth year, Hermione noticed Neville's horrified reaction to witnessing the Cruciatus Curse be performed on a spider by Professor Alastor Moody (actually Barty Crouch Jnr), and shrieked for the teacher to stop. That same year, Neville asked Hermione to attend the Yule Ball with him, as she had "always been really nice" to him, though she had already agreed to accompany Viktor Krum.
Hermione often fiercely defended Neville when others insulted him, and her friendship and support, as well as that of other D.A. members, likely contributed to Neville gradually gaining self-confidence and courage. Neville was obviously very fond of Hermione, and appreciative of her kindness and all the help she had given him. It was hinted that he spoke of her frequently to his grandmother, Augusta Longbottom, who seemed to already know a good deal about Hermione when they first met at Saint Mungo's in 1995. Following the war, they kept in touch.
Luna Lovegood, a good friend
Although Hermione rarely saw eye-to-eye with Luna Lovegood due to their very different world views and beliefs, the two became very good friends through Dumbledore's Army. Hermione first met Luna on the Hogwarts Express in 1995; she insulted The Quibbler, but backtracked when Luna told her that her father was the editor. Hermione was frustrated with Luna's belief in all manner of things without proof or logical grounds, but eventually simply accepted their differences, telling Luna that her planned trip to Sweden in search of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack sounded "lovely".
The following year, Luna comforted Hermione when she was upset over her fight with Ron. Hermione was one of the five portraits Luna painted — along with Harry, Ron, Ginny, and Neville — and hung from her bedroom ceiling, the word "friends" linking them in gold writing. When Xenophilius Lovegood attempted to turn Harry, Ron, and Hermione over to Death Eaters in exchange for his daughter's safety, Hermione engineered their escape so that the Death Eaters saw Harry briefly, thus ensuring that both Luna and her father were not harmed. Despite disagreeing with Luna on many things herself, Hermione defended her when others insulted her; for example, she tried to kick Ron for teasing Luna about Gurdyroots at the wedding of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour, and snapped at the portrait of Phineas Nigellus Black for calling Luna an oddity. The two girls remained close friends in adulthood and saw each other regularly. Luna may be one of the best female friends of Hermione (along with Ginny), as she was only seen with these girls during her school-time at Hogwarts.
Sirius Black, her friend
Hermione first learned about Sirius Black in 1993, when he escaped Azkaban. The wizarding world at large knew of him as the wizard who murdered twelve Muggles and a wizard (Peter Pettigrew) with a single curse. Very few knew of his affiliation with the Potters and those who did also believed that Sirius had betrayed James and Lily Potter to Voldemort by revealing their location at Godric's Hollow. During the events at Hogwarts in 1993, Hermione along with Harry, Ron and Lupin discovered that, contrary to their previous beliefs, Sirius Black had never committed the murders for which he had been incarcerated, nor had he betrayed his closest friends.
The trio managed to save Sirius and Lupin from being subjected to the Dementor's Kiss at the hands of Severus Snape by firing three simultaneous Disarming Charms at him. Snape was blasted off his feet and knocked unconscious, allowing Harry, Ron and Hermione to continue their interrogation of Sirius who later revealed that Pettigrew had disguised himself in his rat Animagus form for twelve years in order to escape justice and the wrath of Voldemort's remaining Death Eaters. However, upon exiting the Whomping Willow's secret passageway together, Pettigrew shrewdly used Lupin's werewolf transformation as a distraction and escaped. Sirius was soon apprehended and locked in Filius Flitwick's office to await the Dementor's Kiss. Harry and Hermione would later use the latter's Time-Turner to rescue Sirius, who became deeply grateful to both of them.
In 1994, Hermione, Harry, and Ron visited Sirius at the cave off Hogsmeade village he was hiding in, bringing him food. Here they discussed the many mysteries that had occurred during that year, the trio learning valuable pieces of information regarding the imprisonment of Barty Crouch Jnr After the events of the Third Task, Sirius (while in his Animagus form) joined Hermione, Ron and Molly Weasley at Harry's bedside, each indicating their affections for the latter.
Hermione and Sirius would not meet again until the summer of 1995, at the Headquarters of the second Order of the Phoenix. Sirius was obliged to remain in 12 Grimmauld Place for his own safety (his innocence not yet recognised by the Ministry). Sirius was rather disappointed when Harry was allowed to return to Hogwarts, Hermione pointing out that he had probably been secretly wishing that Harry had been expelled from school so that they could both stay at Grimmauld Place and be "outcasts together". Hermione expressed an even deeper understanding of Sirius's emotions when she stated her opinion to Harry that Sirius was attempting to relive his happier school days through his godson. Harry ignored this and became slightly agitated at the suggestion that Sirius might be guilty of such a crude, selfish mentality. However, she severely disapproved of his indifferent and occasionally cruel treatment of his house-elf, Kreacher, despite the fact that Kreacher initially appeared to be disgusted by her and addressed her as "the Mudblood" (which Hermione often attributed to Kreacher being senile due to his old age.)
She also thought that Sirius was attempting to live vicariously through her, Harry and Ron when he encouraged them to form Dumbledore's Army, but the two boys became angry and snapped at her when she expressed this belief. Sirius was eventually killed by Bellatrix Lestrange in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, much to the dismay of his friends and loved ones. Hermione was devastated by his death, and often tried to provide comfort to Harry, who had been even more deeply affected by the tragedy. At the end of the Second Wizarding War, Hermione became godmother to Harry's eldest son, James Sirius, whose first and middle name was derived from James Potter and Sirius Black respectively.
Hermione with Crookshanks
Crookshanks was Hermione's large, bandy-legged, half-Kneazle, ginger-coloured pet cat since she bought him from the Magical Menagerie in Diagon Alley, in 1993. She seemed to think he was gorgeous, although no one else had wanted to buy him when he was still being sold at the Menagerie. She was proud of his cleverness. The latter proved to be quite true during the 1993–1994 school year.
Crookshanks recognised that Hermione had left him at the Burrow before Bill and Fleur's wedding in 1997, most likely had been left in care of Mrs Weasley or Ginny, but it is possible that they were reunited after the Second War given the deep care and affection they had for each other.
Lavender Brown, her roommate and romantic rival
Hermione's roommates at Hogwarts were fellow Gryffindors Lavender Brown and Parvati Patil as well as Fay Dunbar and another girl. While Lavender and Parvati swiftly became best friends, Hermione was not very close to either of them. Although the girls did not dislike each other, they had very different interests and sometimes clashed as a result.
For example, Hermione scorned Divination, Lavender and Parvati's favourite subject, and accidentally upset Lavender with her clumsy attempt to comfort her over the death of her rabbit. Hermione was also angry with Lavender for doubting Harry Potter's assertion that Lord Voldemort had returned in 1995 and snapped at her about it.
Parvati Patil, her roommate
When Lavender began dating Ron Weasley, she was very upset and confided in Harry about her feelings. Once they broke up however, Hermione chose to not display open affection towards Ron so Lavender's feelings would not get hurt. She also came to Lavender's rescue during the Battle of Hogwarts, blasting Fenrir Greyback away from her. Unfortunately Lavender was mortally wounded by Greyback and was already dead by the time Hermione reached her. It can be assumed that Hermione was at least saddened by Lavenders death.
Hermione had a less tumultuous relationship with Parvati, although the two were not close. During Hermione's first year at Hogwarts, she hugged Parvati after Harry caught the Snitch at a Quidditch game. Parvati was noted to feel guilty after laughing at Ron's cruel teasing of Hermione in Transfiguration, and the two discussed Hermione's attendance of the Slug Club Christmas party with Cormac McLaggen. As Parvati looked “positively agog” at Hermione confiding in her, it can be assumed that Hermione seldom discussed personal matters with her room mates.
Cormac McLaggen
Cormac McLaggen was a Gryffindor student one year above Hermione. The two became acquainted in 1996 through the Slug Club, of which they were both members, though Hermione did not think highly of McLaggen. When she overheard him insulting Ron and Ginny during Quidditch try-outs, Hermione struck him with the Confundus Charm, undermining his abilities as a Keeper.
Later in the year, when Hermione was furious with Ron for dating Lavender Brown, she decided to attend Professor Slughorn's Christmas party with McLaggen because she knew Ron despised him. McLaggen was apparently interested in Hermione, as he escorted her to the party and was very forward with her romantically while there. This, as well as his tendency to boast about himself, put Hermione off, and she soon abandoned him for the company of Harry and Luna before leaving the party altogether to avoid him. It can be assumed that the party was the end of their interaction.
Cho Chang in her fifth year
Hermione had a two sided history with Cho; while Hermione offered Harry advice for making his relationship with Cho successful, Cho thought that Hermione's friendship with Harry was romantic and got increasingly jealous of her since Harry spends so much time with her. Hermione has no grudges for Cho however and was not angry at her when Harry told Hermione that Cho insulted her, instead rather cross at Harry for messing up his own relationship. When Harry arrives at the Room of Requirement with Ron and Hermione, shortly after the Battle of Hogwarts all hard feelings seemed to have been forgotten or forgiven as Cho greeted Hermione in a friendly way, probably since Cho had long broke up with Harry. The two seemed to be on neutral terms.
Lord Voldemort, her enemy
Hermione first learned about Lord Voldemort, the most dangerous Dark wizard of all time, after reading about him sometime before she began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. During her first year, she and Ron Weasley helped Harry Potter reach the Philosopher's Stone and protect it from Voldemort.
A year later, Hermione, after fully recovering from her Polyjuice mishap, was shown T. M. Riddle's Diary by Harry. At first enthusiastic that the book might have "magical powers", Hermione first came up with the theory that it was Tom Riddle who originally "caught" the "Heir of Slytherin" when the Chamber of Secrets had been opened fifty years prior. She also correctly guessed that the Diary contained the answers to the Chamber's location, how to open it, and the true identity of Slytherin's monster. Thinking that the Diary was written in invisible ink, the attempted to use the spell Aparecium, and then a Revealer, on the object, but to no effect. Later on, when Harry went to the trophy room to try to learn more about Tom Riddle, he was accompanied by an "interested" Hermione. When Ron compared Riddle to Percy "in disgust", mentioning the former as being "Prefect, Head Boy... probably at the top of every class", Hermione responded in a "slightly hurt" voice, "You say that like it's a bad thing."
Later on, she also correctly deduced that Riddle had "caught the wrong person", and that "it was some other monster [not Hagrid's Acromantula, Aragog] that was killing people". Later on, after Harry mentioned "hearing the voice" again before the Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Hufflepuff, Hermione ran immediately to the Library to research, where realised that Slytherin's monster was a Basilisk. Tearing the page out of the book, and putting it in her right hand, she left the Library, where she warned the first person she met, Penelope Clearwater, to look around corners with her mirror. However, both Hermione and Penelope were petrified  by Salazar Slytherin's Basilisk, which was controlled by Tom Riddle's memory.
In 1995, she learned that the Dark Lord had returned and supported Harry against the Ministry's denial and smear campaign. She also fought in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries to prevent Voldemort from obtaining a vital prophecy, but was severely injured and rendered unconscious. In 1997, she left Hogwarts to help Harry and Ron find and destroy Voldemort's horcruxes. She personally destroyed Helga Hufflepuff's Cup using a Basilisk's fang. She later witnessed Harry's defeat of Voldemort in the Battle of Hogwarts.
However, Hermione made very little direct contact with Voldemort, truly seeing him for the first time during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. Possibly the closest connection Hermione and Voldemort shared was through the former wearing Salazar Slytherin's Locket whilst travelling with Harry Potter and Ron Weasley in 1997. The Horcrux locket was worn by all three for regular, though limited, periods of time, inadvertently allowing the portion of soul within to access the wearer's thoughts, emotions and deepest fears. The Horcrux had learned enough about Hermione to use hers and Harry's likenesses in emotionally torturing Ron, reflecting Ron's deepest fears of Hermione preferring Harry to him. Because the Horcrux had become so disconnected from the once whole soul of Tom Riddle, the physically bodied Voldemort was not aware of any of these events, nor of the information the Horcrux had gained dangling around the necks of Harry and his closest friends.
Although they had very little direct contact, Hermione and Voldemort are sometimes similar: both are "model students" who achieved outstanding grades in NEWTS. Both were Prefects, although Voldemort was Head Boy while Hermione skipped school during what would have been her seventh year due to political persecution, preventing her from being Head Girl that year (it is possible that Hermione became Head Girl when she went back to finish her seventh year after Voldemort's final destruction). They both came from Muggle backgrounds, but Voldemort was raised in an orphanage while Hermione was brought up in a loving Muggle family.
Bellatrix Lestrange, a hated enemy
Bellatrix Lestrange was one of Voldemort's most fanatically loyal followers; Hermione initially knew her as one of the Death Eaters involved in torturing and permanently incapacitating Frank and Alice Longbottom, though she also witnessed Bellatrix murder Sirius Black at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, in 1996.
During the Skirmish at Malfoy Manor, Bellatrix chose to torture Hermione, who, as a Muggle-born, Bellatrix felt was most dispensable (though, as a "blood traitor," Ron Weasley was a close second), in order to discover where and how the trio had managed to acquire Godric Gryffindor's Sword. During the interrogation, Bellatrix used her knife to carve the word "mudblood" on Hermione's arm, as well as torturing her sadistically with the Cruciatus Curse. Hermione later used one of Bellatrix's hairs obtained in the skirmish to make Polyjuice Potion and break into the Lestrange Vault at Gringotts Wizarding Bank. She expressed disgust at having to  use Bellatrix's wand knowing the crimes Bellatrix commited with it. Hermione, Ginny, and Luna duelled against Bellatrix during the final battle, but were made to stand aside by Molly Weasley, who eventually killed Bellatrix herself.
Draco Malfoy, her school bully
Draco Malfoy, of an old and wealthy pure-blood family with Death Eater ties, was raised to believe in the inferiority of Muggle-borns, and thus treated Hermione with disdain. This was probably exacerbated by Hermione's friendship with Harry and Ron, who shared a strong enmity with Draco from virtually the moment they met, and her beating Draco in school marks, for which his father berated him. Draco frequently called Hermione the disparaging term "Mudblood," which usually set off the tempers of her friends — and the entire Gryffindor Quidditch team when he first said it to her face in 1992 — but Hermione tended to ignore Draco and urged Harry and Ron to do the same.
Occasionally she would snap back at him, and in their third year, she even slapped him when he mocked Rubeus Hagrid for being upset over the impending execution of Buckbeak, for which Draco was largely responsible.
In spite of his prejudice and dislike toward Hermione, Draco was reluctant to confirm her identity when he was asked to do so by his parents and aunt Bellatrix in 1998, avoiding even looking at her. As an adult sobered by his wartime experiences, Draco was civil towards Hermione and her friends, and friendly with her nephew, Albus Potter.He even found the idea of taking orders from her during their ambush in 1981 of Delphini to be darkly humorous. Draco's civility towards Hermione during this time was likely reinforced due to her being the Minister For Magic in Britain at the time, and possibly due to her relations to Albus Potter, the best friend of his own son, Scorpius.
Pansy Parkinson
Pansy Parkinson was more or less Hermione's polar opposite: where Hermione was compassionate (as seen when she founded SPEW), independent, and incredibly helpful to nearly anyone who needed it, Pansy was petty and spiteful, who mocked just about every non-Slytherin student she encountered (as well as Hagrid), and was little more than one of Draco Malfoy's more sycophantic lackeys. Pansy had a tendency to taunt and snipe at Hermione, Harry, and Ron at any given opportunity, though Hermione rarely seemed more than slightly irritated by her comments; the major exception to that most likely would have been Pansy's attempt to surrender Harry to Lord Voldemort shortly prior to the start of the Battle of Hogwarts. Hermione had a scathing opinion of Pansy, believing her to be be a "cow", and "thicker than a concussed troll".
Rita Skeeter
While covering the Triwizard Tournament in Hermione's fourth year, Daily Prophet journalist Rita Skeeter wrote a number of exaggerated and slanderous stories about Harry Potter and his friends, including one that outed Rubeus Hagrid as a half-giant. Harry and Hermione angrily confronted Rita about this. After Hermione insulted her, Rita published another article that portrayed Hermione as manipulative and ambitious, claiming that she was toying with the emotions of both Harry Potter and Viktor Krum. This resulted in Hermione receiving several letters of hate mail, including a few Howlers and at least one envelope filled with bubotuber pus.
Hermione became obsessed with getting back at Rita and uncovering how she was getting all of her information. Finally, near the end of the school year Hermione realised that Rita Skeeter was an unregistered Animagus. She caught Rita in her beetle form attempting to eavesdrop on Harry in the Hospital Wing after the Third Task. Hermione sealed her inside a small bottle. Hermione blackmailed Rita into giving up writing for one year, otherwise her unregistered status would be revealed. As the penalties are apparently quite severe, Rita had no choice but to comply.
When the Ministry of Magic began using the Daily Prophet in its smear campaign against Harry, Hermione was again able to blackmail Rita, this time into writing an article for The Quibbler that would allow Harry to tell his side of the story. After her one year punishment was over, Rita went back to writing with as much enthusiasm and as little scruples as she had before, although it's unknown if she ever crossed Hermione again. Given her notable lack of commentary regarding Hermione during the 2014 Quidditch World Cup in Egypt, it is likely that Rita remained extremely wary of Hermione's wrath 19 years following her being blackmailed by the prodigious witch.
Dumbledore's Army, her allies
Dumbledore's Army was essentially Hermione's brainchild, though she co-founded it with Ron and Harry during the 1995–1996 school year. After Dolores Umbridge informed her Defence Against the Dark Arts students that they would not be using any magic, claiming a theoretical education would suffice, a furious Hermione (fearful of being ill-equipped to deal with the reborn Lord Voldemort and the upcoming O.W.L.s) conceived of the organisation as a means of allowing any student interested in actually practising defensive magic to do so. Though the secret classes were taught by Harry, Hermione arranged the initial meeting at the Hog's Head, created the DA's method of covert communication, and jinxed their member list to reveal any betrayal.
All of the DA members grew closer over the course of the year (with the exceptions of Marietta Edgecombe, who betrayed the DA to Umbridge, and later Zacharias Smith, who deserted them), as evidenced by their reunion in 1997, and their enthusiasm in supporting Harry and mobilising against the invading Death Eaters during the Battle of Hogwarts. Moreover, the DA truly cemented Hermione's friendships with Luna Lovegood and Neville Longbottom, who were the only members, aside from Ginny Weasley, to fight alongside Hermione, Harry, and Ron at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower.
The original Order of the Phoenix, her allies
Hermione first heard about the Order of the Phoenix in 1995, when she, Harry and Ron spent several weeks at the Order's headquarters. Through her time at Grimmauld Place, Hermione got to know Alastor Moody, the most famous Auror of modern times, known for rounding up several Death Eaters after the First Wizarding War and for his growing paranoia. He and Hermione fought together in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, and later, in the Battle of the Seven Potters, where Moody was killed by Voldemort's own hand. Hermione, like the rest of the Order, was shocked and horrified by the death of such a skilled Auror, "the consummate survivor," and disgusted by Mundungus Fletcher's desertion. Hermione, who had known Fletcher as a petty criminal who had stolen a number the Black family heirlooms shortly after Sirius Black's death, aside from being a member of the Order, took part in interrogating Fletcher, when she, Harry and Ron realised Salazar Slytherin's Locket had been among the items stolen from Grimmauld Place.
Hermione had great respect for Kingsley Shacklebolt, a skilled Auror and eventual Minister for Magic, who was known as "Royal" on Potterwatch, and who saved countless lives (including Hermione, Ron and Harry's) when he sent his Patronus to warn the attendees of Bill and Fleur's wedding that the Ministry had fallen, and with it, the protections surrounding the Burrow. Another member of the Order responsible for saving the trio was Aberforth Dumbledore, Albus' younger brother. Though Hermione, Harry and Ron had known him for some time as the owner of the Hog's Head Pub, they finally met him in 1998, just before the Battle of Hogwarts, when he just barely managed to get them out a trap set by Death Eaters. Prior to that, he sent Dobby to rescue them, along with Dean Thomas, Luna Lovegood, Garrick Ollivander and Griphook the Goblin, from the Malfoy Manor; as it turned out, Aberforth had acquired Sirius Black's two-way mirror from Mundungus Fletcher, and been keeping an eye out for Harry.
Nymphadora Tonks, a funny, Metamorphmagus witch, who had become a good friend of Hermione's, died along with her husband and fellow member of the Order, Remus Lupin, during the Battle of Hogwarts. As their son, Ted Lupin, was Harry's godson and was also dating Hermione's niece, Victoire by 2017, it's likely Hermione remained quite close to him.
Albus Dumbledore, her former headmaster
As with most aspects of the wizarding world, Hermione read about Albus Dumbledore shortly after learning that she was a witch. Hermione on her very first train journey revealed she wanted to be in Gryffindor because it was the house that Dumbledore belonged to. She first met the Hogwarts headmaster during her her first year at the school, in 1991, and quickly came to respect Dumbledore's immense power and seemingly infinite wisdom. Although Dumbledore was not as close with her as he was with Harry Potter, he showed great insight into her character very early on. She was one of only three students Dumbledore bequeathed a personal item, as he believed her to be, along with Ron Weasley, trustworthy of accompanying Harry on his mission to destroy Voldemort's Horcruxes.
He respected her intellect, perspicacity, and level-headedness, admitting to Harry that he had counted on Hermione to keep things in perspective when the trio finally discovered the existence of the Deathly Hallows. Hermione was devastated when Dumbledore was killed, and visited his portrait with Harry and Ron after the Battle of Hogwarts to determine the fate of the Hallows.
Rubeus Hagrid, her friend and professor
Rubeus Hagrid was the gamekeeper and Care of Magical Creatures professor at Hogwarts, as well as a member of the Order of the Phoenix during the First and Second Wizarding Wars. Since Hagrid had met Harry Potter prior to the start of Hermione's first year at Hogwarts, Hermione grew closer to Hagrid as her friendship with Harry developed, eventually coming to visit him in his hut regularly with Harry and Ron Weasley. In their second year, Hagrid comforted Hermione when she was called a "a filthy little mudblood" by Draco Malfoy.
Though she disapproved of Hagrid's penchant for collecting dangerous pets, she tended to more pro-actively support him in his efforts to care for them than Harry and Ron, as when Hagrid was attempting to appeal the execution of Buckbeak and raise his half-brother Grawp. In turn, it was Hagrid who encouraged Ron and Harry to re-think their treatment of Hermione when the three had a brief falling out over Hermione getting Harry's new Firebolt confiscated in their third year. When Dolores Umbridge threatened Hagrid's job during the 1995-1996 school year, Hermione advised him to teach only materials related to their O.W.Ls, so as not to give Umbridge any excuse to fire him, and worked tirelessly to keep him on track.
Hagrid remained close to the trio throughout their time at Hogwarts, and fought various battles in the course of the Second Wizarding War. In 2017, Harry's sons planned to meet Hagrid in his hut for tea soon after arriving at school, and it's very likely that Hermione and Ron's daughter would have been joining them.
Remus Lupin, her professor and friend
Hermione was among the students who were very impressed by Remus Lupin's teaching in 1993, when he was appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. Hermione deduced he was a werewolf during the school year, yet chose to keep it a secret in order to respect his privacy. Towards the end of the year, however, Lupin admitted that he was a werewolf to Harry, Ron and Hermione whilst in the Shrieking Shack. Following the events in this dilapidated building, Lupin became fully prepared to help Sirius Black kill Peter Pettigrew, the wizard who betrayed James and Lily Potter to Voldemort.
However, thanks to Harry's intervention, they chose not to commit the murder, inadvertently allowing Pettigrew to escape. Lupin had referred to Hermione as the cleverest witch of her age he had ever seen before to this. Hermione, meanwhile, did not concern herself with Lupin's lycanthropy, she judged him only by his good nature and the content of his character.
Hermione met Lupin again in 1995 at the Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix. She and Lupin both fought against the Death Eaters during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries in 1996, and survived (despite Hermione being side-swiped by Dolohov's curse). They also fought in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of the Seven Potters alongside, both emerging alive and relatively unscathed on the two occasions. Hermione was pleased to learn that Lupin had married Nymphadora Tonks before the Battle of the Seven Potters began, and became even more joyful at the news of Lupin's son, Ted Lupin, being born; joining in on the celebratory festivities at Shell Cottage. Hermione was devastated by Lupin's and Tonks' deaths in 1998, becoming friendly with their orphaned son, Teddy Lupin, later on in life.
Minerva McGonagall, her Head of House and professor
Professor Minerva McGonagall took a shine to Hermione from the first class she had with her, granting the first-year student in her house one of her "rare smiles" when Hermione successfully transfigured a match into a needle early on in the lesson and long before any other student. She had high expectations for Hermione, and was thus disappointed in her when Hermione claimed she tried to fight the troll that entered the school in 1991 on her own, in order to cover up for Harry and Ron. Whenever Hermione and her friends would get into trouble, McGonagall almost inevitably looked to Hermione to be the most sensible one.
McGonagall was noticeably upset when Hermione was Petrified in 1993, even granting Harry and Ron permission to skip a class so they could visit Hermione in the hospital wing. The following school year, she helped arrange for Hermione to be granted a Time-Turner to take extra classes. When the professor was injured with four Stunning Spells in 1996, Hermione was very upset and worried for her. Hermione seemed to regard her head of house as a role model, while Professor McGonagall, in spite of her sternness, was obviously quite fond of Hermione and expected great things of her.
Later, after McGonagall became headmistress of Hogwarts and Hermione became a member of the Ministry of Magic, McGonagall granted her permission to use notes left to the Hogwarts Archives, written by Albus Dumbledore, in her re-translation of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, demonstrating McGonagall's trust in her former pupil.
Severus Snape, her professor
Severus Snape was the Potions Master during most of Hermione's time at Hogwarts. He was also the Head of Slytherin House, and tended to openly show preferential treatment for the students of his own house, while being quick to criticise and deduct points from Gryffindor students. He was particularly unpleasant towards the trio, and regularly punished and verbally assaulted Harry and Ron for their poor to mediocre performances in his class. He could not do the same to Hermione, as she was the best student in the year and instead mocked her for things like being an "insufferable know-it-all," once even snidely insulting the size of Hermione's teeth.
Despite his pre-existing dislike for Gryffindor, Snape's treatment of Hermione likely had more to do with her close friendship with Harry. Despite this, Hermione was still seen to defend Snape on occasion when Harry and Ron blamed him for evil deeds which occurred in Hogwarts, like setting the troll in the dungeon and trying to steal the Philosopher's Stone in Harry's first year. In her fifth year she defended Snape while Ron expressed distrust of him, citing the number of times they were wrong about Snape wanting to harm them. After Dumbledore's death, she like many, believed that Snape was a coward who killed a man who trusted him more than anyone. It is unknown exactly how she reacted to learning of Snape's true motives and allegiance, but given her personality, it is highly likely that she came to both forgive her former Professor's cruelty, and even admire him for his bravery.
Dolores Umbridge, her former professor and enemy
Dolores Umbridge was appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor by the Ministry of Magic, in 1995. She was a sadistic woman who enjoyed punishing and torturing students using the Black Quill, most notably when she forced Harry Potter to carve "I must not tell lies" into the back of his own hand. Umbridge was as obsessed with blood-status as the Death Eaters, and had a particular hatred of what she called "half-breeds." Hermione, like most of the students and staff at Hogwarts, hated Umbridge. Hermione was one of the first to pick up on the true motives behind Umbridge's appointment at the magical school. In turn, Umbridge was not too fond of Hermione, who was not only Muggle-born, but was also probably far too perceptive for her liking, as well as being outspokenly opposed to a purely theoretical defensive magical education.
When Umbridge planned to use Veritaserum and then the Cruciatus Curse on Harry, Hermione was the one who came up with the lie that led to them venturing into the Forbidden Forest and Umbridge eventually being dragged away by a herd of offended centaurs.
Hermione next met Umbridge a second time at the Ministry of Magic in 1997, when Hermione was disguised as Mafalda Hopkirk through the usage of Polyjuice Potion. Umbridge was, at the time, interrogating "Mudblood" witches and wizards, prior to sending them to Azkaban. Harry stunned Umbridge and retrieved Salazar Slytherin's Locket, one of Voldemort's hocruxes which Umbridge had taken from Mundungus Fletcher and was attempting to pass off as a family heirloom and proof of her relation to the Selwyn family. Hermione replaced the locket by duplicating it with the Geminio spell so Umbridge would not know that it had been taken from her. The trio proceeded to free all the Muggle-Borns awaiting interrogation.
Suffice it to say that Umbridge personified everything that Hermione detested and loathed in Wizarding society, including but not limited to racial prejudice, sadism, malicious misuse of power, authoritarianism, and pure-blood supremacy.
Septima Vector, her Arithmancy professor
Hermione also had a good relationship with her Arithmancy Professor Septima Vector. Many students disliked Vector because of her strictness. However, Hermione said Arithmancy was her favourite subject at Hogwarts. She also never complained about Vector's strictness. During her third year, Hermione joined her class and used a time-turner to get to one of the lessons. Then in her fourth year, Hermione and the other students got no homework from Septima Vector on the first day of term, and she adamantly refused to skive Arithmancy.
Rowling took Hermione's name from William Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale, saying that she wanted it to be unusual, since if fewer girls shared her name, fewer girls would get teased for it. Rowling's knowledge and interest in Greek mythology may have also influenced her choice in regards to Hermione's name. In 1988, Rowling wrote a short essay about her time studying classics entitled "What was the Name of that Nymph Again? or Greek and Roman Studies Recalled"; it was published by the University of Exeter's journal Pegasus. The name "Hermione" is derived from "Hermes", who was the messenger of the Greek gods, as well as the god of wit, eloquence and quick thinking.
'Hermione' is the female derivative of 'Hermes', a messenger god known for his sharp wit and ability to transition between worlds. Quite fittingly, Hermione transitioned between the Muggle and wizarding worlds, delivered information, and was pretty sharp-witted herself.
Hermione in her sixth year
Hermione is also the name of another figure from Greek mythology, who was the princess of Sparta and the only daughter of Helen of Troy and King Menelaus. The name also appears in Jean-Baptiste Lully's play Cadmus et Hermione, based on the story of the goddess of harmony, Harmonia, who married the founder of Thebes.
In order to ensure that fans could correctly pronounce Hermione's name, a scene was created between Hermione and Viktor Krum in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire in which they discuss the correct pronunciation; however, the closest Krum got was "Herm-own-ninny".
In the will of Albus Dumbledore, Hermione's middle name was listed as "Jean"; however, in previous interviews, Rowling had stated that her middle name was "Jane". Rowling cleared this up in a later interview by stating that she had decided that she did not want Hermione to share a middle name with Professor Umbridge, and thus changed it to Jean, which is a female variant of the name John, meaning "God is gracious".
Granger is another word for farmer; specifically, it was the title of a farm bailiff, who oversaw the collection of rent and taxes from the barns of a feudal lord. It is a surname of English and French origin, derived from the Anglo-Norman grainger and the French grangier, both of which come from Latin granica, meaning "granary". It recalls Hermione's Muggle roots. Her original last name was "Puckle", but Rowling later decided this didn't suit her character.
The reason of choosing such an uncommon name as Hermione for the character is because, according to Rowling, she did not bear getting any child mocked because of sharing a name with an "insufferable know-it-all" such as Hermione.
Hermione as she is portrayed in Half-Blood Prince chapter art
Hermione as she appears on  Pottermore
Hermione as illustrated in her dress robes on  Pottermore
Hermione Granger in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Hermione Granger (with books) in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Hermione Granger in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Hermione as a LEGO minifigure
Hermione (with Crookshanks) as LEGO minfigures
Hermione as a LEGO minfigure (first edition)
Hermione Granger as illustrated by Owen Davey on  Pottermore
Hermione Granger as a POP! Vinyl
Hermione (in her Herbology overalls) as a POP! Vinyl
Hermione (with Time Turner) as a POP! Vinyl
Hermione Granger (being sorted with the Sorting Hat) as a POP! Vinyl
Hermione Granger as seen in Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells
Hermione as depicted in Harry Potter: Magic Awakened
J. K. Rowling has said that she loosely based Hermione at the age of eleven on herself at the same age, though an exaggerated version:
Rowling has gone on to say that Hermione, Harry, and Ron are all "a bit like different parts of my personality" as well as her favourite characters, along with Rubeus Hagrid, Albus Dumbledore, Fred and George Weasley, and Luna Lovegood, and that Hermione and Dumbledore were the most useful characters for exposition. She also identified Hermione as "the most brilliant" of her group of friends and confirmed that "Harry needs her badly." Rowling has also said that she considers Hermione to be "a very strong female character," as well as "the brightest character."
Rowling has also stated that, from a feminist point of view, she is very proud of Hermione. In her words, Hermione does not "play the game" in refusing to sacrifice parts of herself as she grows from a girl to a woman. Hermione never makes Ron "feel better" by pretending to be less than she is; she always preserves who she is and waits for Ron to catch up. In general, Rowling regards her as a heroine, but isn't sexy nor entirely sexless, but a "real girl."
Rowling admitted in an interview conducted by Emma Watson for the magazine Wonderland in February of 2014 that, with hindsight, she initially had some second thoughts on the suitability of Ron as a partner for Hermione and believes that in some ways, Harry might have made a better romantic partner for her:
She went on to say that she found the attraction itself plausible, but that the combative side of it might cause problems in an adult relationship as there was too much fundamental incompatibility. However, according to Rowling, they could "probably be alright" with a bit of marriage counselling, as Ron needed to work on his self-esteem issues while Hermione needed to learn to be less critical. She concluded with the statement that just like herself, the uptight Hermione had a real weakness for a funny man. Ultimately, Rowling stated she had no regrets putting them together and stated the two balanced each other out and truly love one another.
"Point me!"
Tom Marvolo Riddle (31 December 1926 – 2 May 1998), later known as Lord Voldemort or, alternatively as the Dark Lord, You-Know-Who, or He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named was an English half-blood wizard considered to have been the most powerful and dangerous Dark wizard of all time. He was amongst the greatest wizards to have ever lived, rivalled only by Albus Dumbledore. Descended from Salazar Slytherin on his mother's side through the House of Gaunt, Tom Riddle was conceived whilst his father, Tom Riddle Senior, was under the effects of a love potion supplied by his mother, Merope Gaunt. When the enchantment was lifted, Tom's father abandoned his pregnant wife and returned to Little Hangleton. His mother died moments after giving birth to and naming him. She named him after his father (Tom) and maternal grandfather, Marvolo Gaunt. Tom was raised in the Muggle-run Wool's Orphanage.
Tom began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1938 and was sorted into Slytherin house. During this time, Tom discovered his heritage and adopted pure-blood supremacist ideals. Tom opened the Chamber of Secrets and used its monster, the Basilisk, to attack Muggle-born students, resulting in Myrtle Warren's death. He began his quest to attain immortality between the years of 1943 and 1998, creating his first Horcrux at the age of sixteen. While attending Hogwarts, Tom Riddle was made a prefect in 1942 until his graduation in 1945.
Tom spent several months as a purchasing agent for the Dark artefacts shop Borgin and Burkes before disappearing. Splitting his own spirit into a total of eight fragments, Tom created an unprecedented seven Horcruxes, with one made later in his life, unintentionally and without his knowledge — Harry Potter. Tom re-emerged several decades later having abandoned his 'Muggle' name and becoming the self-proclaimed Lord Voldemort, which is an anagram of his birth name. In the First and Second Wizarding Wars, he commanded a veritable army of wizards and Dark creatures; committed countless murders and atrocities; and eventually succeeded in taking over the British Ministry of Magic.
Voldemort was ripped from his body in 1981 after attempting to kill Harry Potter. Although unable to die, he was not able to regain a permanent and physical body until 1995, thus spending the intervening fourteen years as 'a shell, less than the meanest ghost'. He was finally killed by his own backfiring curse after Harry Potter and Albus Dumbledore succeeded in destroying all of his Horcruxes.
Unknown to most, however, Voldemort's legacy and bloodline would live on through his daughter Delphini, whom he conceived with his loyal follower Bellatrix Lestrange. The conception is thought to have occurred sometime after the Battle of the Department of Mysteries in 1996 and before Voldemort's death at the hands of Harry in 1998 .
Riddle's broken and mutilated soul was then trapped in Limbo for eternity, unable to move on to the afterlife or even return as a disembodied spirit.
By Harry Potter's time, Tom's family on his mother Merope's side were the last known members of the House of Gaunt. The Gaunts were an ancient, and formerly wealthy, wizarding family, noted for producing individuals with violent and unstable personalities due to generations of inbreeding.
Some notable members of the Gaunt family include:
Because of the Gaunt family's love for grandeur, along with little sensibility at their indulgences, the family gold was gambled away and gone long before the last known heirs of the lineage were born. Likewise, a tendency to 'marry their own cousins' to 'keep their bloodline pure', following the beliefs of their ancestor Salazar Slytherin, caused the heirs to the Gaunt name to suffer the ill-effects of generations of inbreeding and incest.
In North America, in what would later become the state of Massachusetts in the United States, the descendants of the Irish branch of the Gaunt family, through the Sayre's line, were thought to have died out sometime in the 17th or 18th century. Rionach Steward, Sayre's Half-blood daughter and the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Ilvermorny, was also rumoured to have inherited the ability to speak Parseltongue from her mother. Unwilling to further Slytherin's bloodline, since she viewed him as a Dark wizard, Rionach never married or had children, and she later died without heirs.
However, Rionach was unaware that another branch of the Gaunt family was still present, alive and well, across the ocean in England. It was from this line of Gaunts from which, centuries later, another Half-blood descendant, Tom Marvolo Riddle, would be born.
Rionach's sister Martha, unlike her sibling, married a No-maj (Muggle) friend of the nearby Pocumtuc Native American tribe. Born a Squib, without any magical powers, Martha felt ostracised within the growing American wizarding community, despite being the child of an important family. In the end, due to the emotional pain caused by being unable to perform magic, and the stigma of being the the only Squib to grow up at Ilvermorny, Martha decided to live her life henceforth as a Muggle.
Tom's maternal grandfather, Marvolo Gaunt, and his maternal uncle, Morfin Gaunt, claimed to be the last known male, pure-blood descendants of Slytherin by the early 20th century. As such, they regarded themselves as 'royalty' for their ancestry, despite their poverty, squalor, lack of education, and mental and physical disorders from centuries of familial inbreeding.
Tom's father, Tom Riddle Senior, was a wealthy Muggle living in the village of Little Hangleton, near the Gaunt shack, who was forced into a relationship with Merope Gaunt through the suspected use of the Imperius Curse or a love potion. After some time, it is speculated by Albus Dumbledore that Merope discontinued her bewitchment of Tom, in the hopes that he had really fallen in love with her, or would at least stay for their child's sake. To Merope's great sorrow, Tom Snr fled from her after he came to his senses and regained his free will and never wanted to see her again.
Tom in his room at Wool's orphanage, where he spent the majority of his childhood
Tom Marvolo Riddle was born on 31 December 1926 at Wool's Orphanage in London. His mother Merope staggered to the door of the orphanage, gave birth to Tom there, and died shortly after. Riddle grew up in the dingy orphanage, completely unaware of his wizarding heritage. Since the Muggle orphanage staff did not know anything about his mother, they did not know about his magical background. Instead, they believed that Merope was a circus worker, as Mrs Cole told Dumbledore shortly before his first meeting with Riddle. It is unknown whether or not the staff relayed this to Riddle before his first encounter with Dumbledore.
Despite his ignorance of his mother's true background, Riddle did have some grasp on his abilities beyond that of normal magical children of his same age, and an unusually high degree of control over them. He could move objects with his mind and cause them to float wherever he wished, manipulate animals and creatures as he wished, speak Parseltongue, and use his power to inflict harm on other orphans. After getting into a fight with fellow orphan Billy Stubbs, he used his powers to hang the boy's rabbit from the rafters. On one occasion, he took two other orphans, Dennis Bishop and Amy Benson, into a cave, where he performed an act, likely with his powers, so horrifying that the two orphans were traumatised into silence. Afterwards, he may have told them, in some means, not to tell anyone what happened in the cave. Riddle also stole from other orphans and hid their things in his cupboard like trophies.
Dumbledore visiting 11-year-old Tom Riddle at Wool's Orphanage
When Riddle was eleven, Dumbledore, who at the time was the Transfiguration teacher at Hogwarts, talked to Mrs Cole, who informed him of how unusual the boy was, sharing tales of his extraordinary influence over the other children. When Dumbledore was at last introduced to the boy, Riddle at first believed him to be a doctor or psychiatrist of some sort, coming to take him to an asylum because of what the staff had seen. He was convinced after Dumbledore demonstrated his power by using a Flame-Freezing Charm on Riddle's cupboard and revealed that Hogwarts was a school for people with magic, whereupon Riddle realised that was what his abilities were.
Tom also mentioned his proficiency for Parseltongue in this same meeting, asking if it was a common gift amongst wizards, to which Dumbledore gave no reply. Dumbledore also admonished Riddle for stealing from others and made him return the items with his apologies. He also warned Riddle to stop his misbehaviour, as Hogwarts had an honour code whereupon lying, cheating and stealing were not tolerated.
At a very early age, it was clear that Riddle displayed a desire to be different and set apart from others (as it was hinted when he mentioned his dislike of his own name, because it was such a common name).
Dumbledore proving to Riddle that he was a wizard
Riddle was not surprised upon being informed by Dumbledore that he was a wizard — he was, in fact, eager to believe that he had special gifts that no normal person had. Riddle also showed an eminent fear of death, considering it a human weakness. He claimed that his mother could not have been a witch, because if she was magical, then she would have been able to avoid dying, and thought his father was a wizard. He asked if his father was an alumnus of Hogwarts, to which Dumbledore said he did not know offhand.
Riddle's abuse of his wizarding powers alarmed Albus. He resolved to keep a close eye on him, something he should have done in any case, seeing as he was 'alone and friendless'. Dumbledore also warned Riddle that at Hogwarts he would be introduced to the laws that controlled the usage of magic in the wizarding world, and that law-breakers were punished with severity not by Hogwarts but the Ministry of Magic. Riddle's demeanour changed after Dumbledore reprimanded him; he became more guarded and shielded his real reactions to things, adopting a kinder persona. Dumbledore provided Riddle with enough information to find Diagon Alley and Platform Nine and Three-Quarters. He also provided Riddle with a stipend from school funds so that he could purchase his books and equipment.
Travelling on his own to Diagon Alley, Riddle bought some second-hand robes and spell books for himself, along with his wand, which was thirteen-and-a-half inches, made of yew with a phoenix feather core from Ollivanders. Little did Riddle know that very wand would, in the future, share the same wand core as Harry Potter. Garrick Ollivander later said that the wand was very powerful; Voldemort was very pleased with it until the wand failed him during his confrontation with Harry Potter in the Little Hangleton graveyard.
Riddle was educated at Hogwarts from 1938 to 1945, and was sorted into Slytherin House, a nod to his ancestor Salazar Slytherin. During summer breaks, he was forced to return to the Muggle orphanage, which he despised and dreaded more than any other place on earth.
The Slug Club, of which Tom was a member of during his education
Riddle described the way he was seen as 'poor, but brilliant, parent-less, but so brave, a school prefect, a model student'. Due to his exceptional acting abilities and handsome looks, he was able to convince virtually all of the Hogwarts staff and instructors that his kinder façade was his true personality. The sole exception to this was Dumbledore, who, though not necessarily suspicious of Riddle, never forgot about his misdeeds at the orphanage, nor his unsettling behaviour during their first meeting. In turn, Riddle realised that he had been careless in showing Dumbledore his true character upon their first meeting, and never attempted to win him over as he had with his other instructors. In time, he came to fear and despise Dumbledore.
Tom Riddle during his time at Hogwarts
Over time, Riddle gathered to himself a gang of Slytherin thugs, a motley composition of 'the weak seeking protection, the ambitious seeking some shared glory, and the thuggish gravitating toward a leader who could show them more refined forms of cruelty', most of which would become the first Death Eaters. Riddle claimed they were his friends, and made it appear so in public, but in truth, they amounted to little more than servants, and he cared almost nothing for them. He often manipulated them into committing petty crimes and other misdeeds, but none of these incidents were reliably traced back to the group.
Tom standing in the Chamber of Secrets
Upon arriving at Hogwarts, Riddle became obsessed with his heritage and began researching it with an insatiable hunger. He focussed solely on the identity of his father, still thinking him to be the magical parent, as he had held onto his beliefs that death was a Muggle consequence and a weakness. He searched for his father's name in the school trophy room, in the records of Hogwarts prefects and in records of wizarding history, but found nothing to suggest his father had even attended Hogwarts. He was eventually forced to accept that his father was the Muggle parent, and that his mother was the magical one. It was around this time that Riddle gave himself the alias 'Lord Voldemort', to spare himself of the reminder of his 'filthy Muggle father', who he later learned had abandoned his wife after learning she was a witch (although in reality he left her after she stopped controlling him with a love potion).
Using his middle name, Marvolo, which was taken from his maternal grandfather, Riddle discovered his mother's heritage and the Gaunts' bloodline connection with Salazar Slytherin. Once Riddle learned of his ancestry, it was not long before he discovered the existence of the Chamber of Secrets under Hogwarts, during his fifth year, and tamed the Basilisk which dwelt within. As the Heir of Slytherin through his mother's family, Tom was able to open the Chamber Slytherin had left behind in order to 'purge the school of all those who [were] unworthy to study magic' — in Riddle's and Slytherin's eyes, Muggle-borns.
A 16-year-old Riddle during the 1943 opening of the Chamber of Secrets threatening Hagrid
Around 13 June 1943, the Basilisk petrified many at Hogwarts, with its last victim being a student named Myrtle Warren, who was killed in the girls' bathroom when she saw the Basilisk's yellow eyes. In light of this incident, the Hogwarts Board of Governors decided that Hogwarts was to be closed. During that year, Riddle made a special request that Headmaster Armando Dippet would allow him to stay at school over the summer break. However, Dippet informed him of the governors' decision, and denied his request.
Realising that the Chamber would need to be closed and the culprit caught in order to keep the school open (and not have to return permanently to the orphanage), Riddle framed fellow student Rubeus Hagrid and his pet Acromantula, Aragog. He convinced Dippet that Aragog was the monster that had terrorised the school. He also noted that Hagrid was keeping a dangerous pet, though this was shallow hypocrisy considering the monster he commanded. Hagrid was expelled, and Riddle ironically received an engraved trophy for Special Services to the School.
Dumbledore 'keeping an annoyingly close watch' on Tom
Dumbledore, who did not believe that Hagrid was responsible for the killing, managed to arrange for him to be kept on as Hogwarts's groundskeeper. Distrusting Riddle, Dumbledore kept an 'annoyingly close' watch on him after that. Due to this, Riddle realised that he would not be able to risk opening the Chamber while still a student. As such, he would use this murder to eventually preserve a part of his soul within his own school diary, the very first of his seven Horcruxes, hoping it would one day lead someone to finish Salazar Slytherin's 'noble work'.
Morfin Gaunt telling his nephew about the latter's heritage
Around August 1943, Riddle went to Little Hangleton to learn about his mother's family. While at the Gaunt Shack, he met his uncle Morfin Gaunt, with whom he was far from impressed. Morfin mentioned offhandedly at one point during this meeting that he thought that Tom looked 'mighty like that Muggle', Merope's husband, Tom Riddle Snr. Riddle immediately demanded the identity of the Muggle in question, and Morfin told Riddle the full story of his Muggle father, which infuriated Tom to the point of seeking revenge. Riddle stunned Morfin and took his wand, went over to the Riddle House and, using his uncle's wand, murdered his father, grandfather, and grandmother with the Killing Curse.
Riddle covered up his crimes by altering Morfin's memory, causing him to believe that he was the killer. When the Ministry of Magic investigated the crime, Morfin, who had previously served three years in Azkaban for using magic in front of and against Muggles, freely admitted to the deed and was sentenced to life imprisonment in Azkaban. Tom took the Gaunt family's signet ring from Morfin and later on would preserve another part of his soul within it to make his second Horcrux, wearing it like a trophy at Hogwarts.
Young Riddle asking Professor Slughorn about Horcruxes
During his sixth year, Riddle questioned Professor Slughorn, who was taken in by Riddle's charisma, about the possibility of creating more than one Horcrux, something Slughorn felt deeply ashamed of in later years. In his mid-teen years, Riddle already sought to make himself immortal; being unable to find any recorded information on creating multiple Horcruxes. He wanted to split his soul into seven, as this is the most powerful magical number, and asked the experienced and knowledgeable Slughorn for an opinion before attempting this unknown feat. Slughorn answered all of Riddle's questions under the belief it was merely academic curiosity but was deeply horrified at the thought of creating multiple Horcruxes.
Riddle splitting his soul for the first time
Riddle succeeded in doing so at some point during this year, creating his first Horcrux in the form of the aforementioned diary and his second in the form of the inherited ring. During Riddle's seventh year at Hogwarts, he was made Head Boy, earned outstanding marks in every examination he took, and received a Medal for Magical Merit. Riddle was regarded as one of the most brilliant students ever to attend Hogwarts, a fact admitted by Dumbledore himself.
Borgin and Burkes, Voldemort's former place of employment
After graduating, Riddle immediately approached Dippet and asked him for a chance to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts, and to remain at Hogwarts, for reasons that he did not confide with the then-headmaster — Hogwarts being his true home at heart, using the influential position as a teacher to recruit students into his future army, and to continue to learn the castle's magical secrets. Dippet rejected this offer, deeming the boy too young, but invited Riddle to reapply in a few years, if he was still interested in the post, something that Dumbledore heavily advised against.
Shortly before leaving Hogwarts, however, Riddle charmed Helena Ravenclaw, the daughter of Rowena Ravenclaw and the ghost of Ravenclaw House, into telling him the location of her mother's diadem, which she revealed as a hollow tree deep within a far-flung forest in Albania. He presumably travelled there at her instruction, murdering an Albanian peasant along the way before retrieving the diadem, which he later preserved a third part of his soul within to make his third Horcrux.
Upon his return to Britain, Riddle was offered several positions in the Ministry of Magic, but ended up working at Borgin and Burkes, to the disappointment and surprise of many. Riddle set to persuading witches and wizards to part with their valuable magical heirlooms — a job at which he was very good.
Hepzibah Smith showing Riddle Slytherin's Locket
While working at Borgin and Burkes, Riddle befriended Hepzibah Smith, a wealthy but elderly descendant of Helga Hufflepuff. Between 1955 and 1961, Hepzibah showed Riddle her two most valuable treasures: his ancestor's locket and her ancestor's cup. Tom's eyes flashed red with avarice upon seeing these objects, seeing the locket to be rightfully his as Slytherin's heir and the cup as a reminder of Hogwarts, as well as a priceless artefact.
Riddle murdered Hepzibah, by using a 'little known poison', to steal these coveted objects and vanished without a trace. He again covered his tracks well by implanting another false memory into an innocent bystander — Hokey, Hepzibah's house-elf. Hokey admitted to accidentally putting poison into Hepzibah's cocoa, which was believed, as Hokey was elderly herself and thus believed to be senile. Meanwhile, Riddle immediately resigned his post at Borgin and Burkes and fled with the cup and locket, subsequently turning them into two more Horcruxes using the murders of Hepzibah and an unidentified Muggle tramp.
Riddle disappeared for ten long years. He slipped deeper into the Dark Arts, travelled extensively, consorted with disreputable people, began to become distorted in appearance and lose his handsomeness due to splitting his soul so many times, and began to use the alias 'Lord Voldemort' openly. He also severed contact with Slughorn, who became upset for not living up to the Potions Master's employment offers.
Ten years after Hepzibah Smith's murder, Riddle appealed once more to the Headmaster of Hogwarts, now Albus Dumbledore, for the position of Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts. After a short, superficially amiable chat, Dumbledore directly confronted Riddle regarding why he had requested the position, as he knew full well that Riddle had no desire whatsoever to teach. Riddle, unable to make an open request of Dumbledore due to the malicious nature of his true intentions, simply left after a final, gentle rebuke from his former teacher. From that day on, Hogwarts was never able to keep a Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher for more than a year, which was attributed by Dumbledore to a curse by Riddle. The visit to Hogwarts was not fruitless, however, for Riddle used the opportunity to hide the diadem in the Room of Requirement, where he believed it would never be found.
Voldemort, as Riddle was now exclusively called, spent the next few years before the First Wizarding War gathering followers in witches and wizards who called themselves, collectively, Death Eaters. Some were supportive of his cause to dominate Muggles and Muggle-borns; while others were greedy for domination, wealth and fame; and yet others joined the Dark Lord out of fear. Voldemort considered them more like servants than friends or family. According to Sirius Black, Voldemort also used tricks, jinxes, and blackmail to get people to willingly join him.
At some point around this time, Voldemort greatly enhanced his skills in Legilimency, to the point that Snape claimed he was the most accomplished Legilimens the world had ever seen. Voldemort could read, control and unhinge the minds of others, and could almost always tell when he was being lied to. According to Severus Snape, Voldemort often enjoyed telepathically invading the minds of others, creating visions designed to torture them into madness. Only after extracting the last exquisite ounce of agony, only when he had them literally begging for death, would he finally kill them.
Voldemort wearing a hooded cloak during the First War, as a possible means to invoke fear
In 1970, Voldemort started the First Wizarding War by taking advantage of one of the wizarding world's greatest weaknesses: the beings and creatures that they had outcast. The Dark Lord recruited the giants, who had long ago been driven by Wizardkind into the mountains, and werewolves, who were persecuted by most witches and wizards. Many feared the goblins would also join him, as they were restricted from wand use, but it never happened. In fact, Voldemort murdered a family of goblins near Nottingham at some point during the War, for an unknown reason (possibly anger at the neutrality of the goblins, or no reason at all). Voldemort's army caused widespread destruction and mayhem during the war.
Bartemius Crouch Snr, who was the head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement at the time and was known for his fanatical hatred of the Dark Arts, issued an edict that gave Aurors authorisation to use Unforgivable Curses on Death Eaters without warning, and suspects were sometimes handed over to the Dementors without a Wizengamot trial. Many innocent people were locked away. Due to the atrocities committed by the Death Eaters and Voldemort, and his terrifying persona, people were even afraid to speak his name, and he was referred to as 'You-Know-Who' or 'He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named'.
Under the staunch protection of Dumbledore, the only person Voldemort truly feared, Hogwarts remained a safe place of learning throughout the entire war. The Order of the Phoenix was created by Dumbledore at this time to fight against Voldemort. The war itself lasted for eleven long years.
Eventually, Lord Voldemort visited the home of the father of Barnaby Lee. Mr Lee told his son he was capable of anything if he could become as strong as the Dark Lord, showing faith in his master. He later drowned Barnaby's pet Kneazle.
Lord Voldemort preparing to murder wizards and witches who opposed him
In 1979, Voldemort decided to test the defences around his Horcruxes. He placed Slytherin's locket in the crystal cave, and asked Regulus Black, a loyal 18-year-old Death Eater to lend him his house-elf, Kreacher. Voldemort took the elf with him to the cave, forced him to drink the Emerald Potion, and left him to die on the Crystal Cave Island. Kreacher was able to escape using house-elf magic, and told Regulus of what had happened. Over the years, Voldemort created an army of Inferi from the people he had killed to further strengthen his defences. Upon hearing Kreacher's story, Regulus, who had already been somewhat uncomfortable with the reality of being a Death Eater, decided to defect.
From clues left behind by Voldemort, he deduced that his master had created a Horcrux in order to become immortal. He took a duplicate locket and placed a note inside for Voldemort to find, then ordered Kreacher to take him to where the real locket was hidden. Kreacher guided Regulus past the cave's defences. At the island, with the basin of potion containing the locket, Regulus ordered Kreacher to take it once the potion was gone and replace it with the fake one, then escape without him and find a way to destroy the Horcrux. Regulus drank the potion himself, and when he tried to get water from the lake to quench his thirst, he was dragged to his death by the Inferi. Kreacher obeyed his master's orders and switched the lockets before escaping. However, despite his best efforts, he was unable to destroy the Horcrux.
During this time, Voldemort gave his old diary to Lucius Malfoy, one of his most loyal Death Eaters, and ordered him to hide it. Malfoy kept it safe in his manor, but the Dark Lord never told him that the diary contained a fragment of his soul. Voldemort informed him only that the diary was cleverly charmed and smuggling it into Hogwarts will cause the reopening of the legendary Chamber of Secrets and send the Basilisk living inside the chamber to finish Slytherin's idea of cleansing the school of all Muggle-borns, thus proving that Voldemort was Slytherin's true heir.
Voldemort also left the Hufflepuff's cup in the care of Bellatrix Lestrange, another one of his loyal Death Eaters. Bellatrix, much like her brother-in-law Lucius, was ordered to hide it, so she stored it in her family vault at Gringotts Wizarding Bank, which was considered to be impossible to plunder. She treated the object with extreme priority, although Voldemort hadn't informed her that the cup was a Horcrux. The cup was protected by the bank's extensive security measures, but Lestrange casted some protective curses on it, like a spell which would cause any object to multiply exponentially if touched by anyone other than the vault's owners or to cause the object itself to glow hot as fire and burn the flesh of anyone trying to remove it without authorisation.
Probably during this time he returned Gaunt's ring to the Gaunt shack. He placed the ring inside a golden box and hid it beneath the shack's rotting floorboard, setting up many protective enchantments to deter outsiders from entering the shack and finding the ring. He also placed a powerful curse on the ring as well, one that would quickly lead to the death of the ring's wearer if not stemmed.
Ten years into the war, when Voldemort was at the height of his dominion, a prophecy was given by Sybill Trelawney to Albus Dumbledore which predicted the fall of the Dark Lord. This prophecy was given in the Hog's Head Inn during an interview for the position of Professor of Divination. This prophecy was overheard by Death Eater and informant Severus Snape. According to Dumbledore, Snape only heard half of the prophecy and was then thrown out by the barman, Aberforth Dumbledore, Albus' brother. He relayed to Voldemort what he had heard, not realising that he had missed an important part of the message.
Trelawney's description of the night's events was a bit different however, as she stated that after feeling 'ill', Aberforth burst into the room with Snape in tow, whom he had caught eavesdropping at the door. This is in contrast with Dumbledore's description of events. However, this may be due to the fact that Dumbledore had wished to conceal the identity of the spy from Harry, and told him a simplified version of the events. In any case, Voldemort received only the first part of the prophecy. Feeling threatened, he sprang into action to prevent the fulfilment of the prophecy.
There were, at the time, two babies to whom the prophecy could have referred — Harry Potter, the half-blood son of James and Lily Potter; and Neville Longbottom, the pure-blood son of Frank and Alice Longbottom. Both families had sought to thwart Voldemort three times, and both families were members of the Order of the Phoenix. Both children in question were born at the end of the seventh month, July. Voldemort chose to target Harry instead of Neville; Dumbledore suspected this was because Harry shared a similar family heritage with Voldemort, both of them being half-bloods.
Voldemort killing Lily Potter with the Killing Curse
Some time after Harry's birth, Peter Pettigrew, member of the Order of the Phoenix and the Potter's Secret Keeper began working as a Death Eater for Voldemort. On 31 October 1981 he told Voldemort of their location. The Dark Lord travelled to the Godric's Hollow and with the Potter's Fidelius Charm broken, he simply walked into their home. Once inside he proceeded to murder James and Lily, who did not have their wands. However, when he used the Killing Curse on Harry, it rebounded and seemingly obliterated his body. This happened because Lily lovingly sacrificed her life to protect her son, creating a powerful defence of ancient magic around Harry which protected him for many years. After eleven years of domination and warfare, Voldemort was defeated for the first time.
Infant Harry Potter facing death for the first time
It was at this point that Voldemort's next Horcrux was unknowingly created. Years of experimentation, murder, and deliberately ripping apart his soul into so many Horcruxes had rendered the remainder of his soul so unstable that, when his body was destroyed, a small shard of his soul broke apart from the rest and latched onto the only other living being in what remained of the room: Harry Potter himself. The soul shard latched onto Harry's own soul, granting him some of the Dark Lord's own powers and providing him with a latent connection to Voldemort's own mind. Ironically, Harry became the Dark Lord's sixth Horcrux, the desired number Voldemort wanted in order to split his soul into seven pieces. What remained of Voldemort's mangled soul swiftly escaped from the ruins of the house that same night.
Death Eaters' trial
After Voldemort's first fall from domination, the Death Eaters dispersed and attempted to return to normal life. Many claimed they had been under the Imperius Curse, while others stayed true to their master and continued his work, most notably the Lestrange family, who were eventually taken into custody, convicted at trial, and imprisoned in Azkaban. Most of them however, managed ultimately to remain free and to reintegrate into society.
Voldemort's disembodied soul
Voldemort lost his physical form and magical powers, but he remained alive in ghostly form. The Horcruxes he had created kept his spirit bound to the physical world. He retreated to the forests of Albania, where he had previously found his fifth Horcrux, and waited for his faithful Death Eaters to find him, but many of them now believed him dead, and those still faithful to him were either dead or in Azkaban. His one remaining power was possession.
He gained physical form by inhabiting animals, mainly snakes, though he disliked doing so because the bodies of such animals were ill-equipped to perform magic, and because his possession significantly reduced their lifespans; none of his hosts survived for too long and he would be forced back to spirit form. Additionally, any help that he could have potentially rendered himself required the use of a wand, and animals, obviously, could not be used for this purpose. Voldemort did not dare enter the communities to possess humans, as he knew that Aurors were still abroad, looking for any signs of him.
Quirinus Quirrell, Voldemort's temporary host
In 1991, Voldemort formed a plan to regain his physical body. Hogwarts Professor Quirinus Quirrell had made a voyage to Albania, where his foolish and gullible mind was vulnerable to Voldemort. He latched onto Quirrell's body and came back to England with him.
Somehow, Voldemort learned of the Philosopher's Stone, and how it could somehow return him to his physical form. He ordered Quirrell to steal the stone from a Vault 713 in Gringotts Wizarding Bank so he could make the Elixir of Life. Voldemort discovered the Stone had been removed earlier that same day, and through Quirrell's connections at Hogwarts, learned it was hidden at the school.
The same year that Voldemort set to the task of stealing the Stone, Harry Potter began his first year at Hogwarts. There were many barriers protecting the Stone. Severus Snape, who had switched sides near the end of the war and become a professor of Potions, was suspicious of Quirrell and hounded him relentlessly. On 31 October, Quirrell released a troll in the Hogwarts dungeons as a distraction and sneaked to the Third Floor Corridor, where the Stone was being hidden. Snape followed him and blocked him off, but he had been bitten on the leg by the three-headed dog Fluffy in the process. Voldemort was not to be stopped.
Quirrell jinxing Harry Potter's broom
Later in the year, during a Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Slytherin, Voldemort ordered Quirrell to kill Harry Potter. Quirrell jinxed Harry's broomstick to throw him off, but Snape tried to save Harry with a counter-curse. Hermione Granger, observing the crowd through binoculars to figure out who was jinxing the broom, saw Snape discreetly uttering the counter-curse incantation but erroneously assumed he was performing the actual curse. Running to Snape's stand and setting fire to his robes to distract him and make him stop, she accidentally knocked Quirrell over. This meant that Quirrell broke the necessary eye contact for performing his spell correctly.
Hooded Quirrell drinking unicorn blood in place of his master
Throughout the year, hosting Voldemort's soul drastically weakened Quirrell's body. Voldemort ordered Quirrell to prey on unicorns in the Forbidden Forest and drink their blood so he could gain strength from the unicorn's healing abilities and keep Quirrell alive. Quirrell met Harry, Draco Malfoy, and Fang there, and was about to attack Harry until the centaur Firenze rescued him. About a week before Harry's exams, Harry overheard a conversation between Voldemort and Quirrell, in which the Dark Lord ordered the Defence teacher to try to get the stone again. Potter mistook the conversation for an argument between Snape and Quirrell, because after the match with Hufflepuff he saw the Potions Master trying to intimidate Quirrell.
Quirrell preparing to attack Harry in the Forbidden Forest
Voldemort, perfectly aware of Hagrid's love for magical creatures from their school days and well knowing that Fluffy belonged to the half-giant, forced Quirrell to trick the Hogwarts groundskeeper into telling him how to get past the three-headed dog. One day at the Hog's Head in Hogsmeade, a hooded Quirrell met Hagrid and enticed him into a card game with the wager of a dragon egg. Hagrid assumed that the mysterious man was a dragon dealer and fellow dangerous creature enthusiast. Under the influence of a fair amount of mead, Hagrid divulged to Quirrell that playing music for Fluffy would put him to sleep.
On 4 June 1992, Voldemort ordered Quirrell to send a fake letter to Albus Dumbledore, asking him to go to the Ministry of Magic. Voldemort moved forward with his goal, moving through the security barriers to the Mirror of Erised. Quirrell saw himself presenting the stone to his master, but could not figure out how to get it.
Quirrell's death and Voldemort fleeing away
It was only when Harry arrived, believing he was protecting the Stone from Snape, that Voldemort saw a way to get it. Dumbledore would later say, 'Only those who wanted to find the stone, but not use it, could get it from the mirror.' Voldemort figured this out, and Quirrell attacked Harry. When he touched Harry, however, his hands blistered and burned. Harry placed his hands on Quirrell's face, severely injuring him. However, before Quirrell could harm Harry, Dumbledore appeared, and Voldemort's soul fled, killing Quirrell in the process. Voldemort returned to the Albanian forest, weaker than ever. He had to wait yet again for someone to help him.
Diary Riddle showing Harry Potter one of his memories
When Voldemort, after an unsuccessful attempt to steal the Philosopher's Stone, was still hiding in Albania, Lucius Malfoy was still in possession of his diary. In the summer of 1992, Arthur Weasley began conducting raids on several wizarding households to confiscate Dark or illegally enchanted objects under his recently proposed Muggle Protection Act. Before Malfoy Manor could be raided, Lucius sold several of his more incriminating possessions at Borgin and Burkes and set in motion the old task that Voldemort assigned him which involved reopening the Chamber of Secrets. At Flourish and Blotts Malfoy planted the diary on eleven-year-old Ginny Weasley, who brought it to Hogwarts. By doing this, he hoped to kill two birds with one stone: he would rid himself of any ties connecting to the Dark Arts and he would discredit Arthur Weasley.
The diary possessing Ginny and causing her to write messages on the wall
Ginny began writing in it, and found that a sixteen-year-old Tom Riddle was answering. She found comfort in the diary, confiding it with her worries, not knowing she was being manipulated. Riddle would always have sympathy. The diary slowly drained the life and energy from Ginny, transferring it to itself. Under the diary's control, Ginny re-opened the Chamber of Secrets and released the Basilisk, which petrified several students. While possessed, she also killed Hagrid's roosters and wrote threatening messages on the school corridors in rooster blood. Ginny became upset and confused, knowing that the diary was doing something to her, and tried to flush it down the toilet in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. Harry and Ginny's brother Ron accidentally stumbled upon it, and Harry began communicating with the diary.
Tom Riddle watching Harry and an unconscious Ginny in the Chamber of Secrets
When Ginny saw that Harry had the diary, she stole it back for she did not want Harry to find out all the things she had written in the diary, or what she had done while under its influence. When this piece of Voldemort's soul was ready to take his physical form from Ginny's life, the diary lured her into the Chamber while ignoring her pleas and cries for mercy. Harry found Ginny in time and destroyed the Basilisk with Godric Gryffindor's Sword. Fawkes also arrived, summoned by Harry's profound devotion and loyalty to Dumbledore.
This encounter and Horcrux is what revealed Voldemort's past as 'Tom Marvolo Riddle' to Harry. At first, Harry thought he was an ally, and asked him to help. Then, when revealing his future identity to Harry, Riddle implied that he wanted to kill Harry in revenge for destroying him over even continuing Salazar Slytherin's wish of purging the school of Muggle-borns. Instinctively, Harry used the Basilisk's fang to stab the diary, thinking it would destroy its dark power. Not only was the diary destroyed, but Harry also unknowingly destroyed one of Voldemort's Horcruxes. As Dumbledore surmised, the shard of Voldemort's soul that contained his core identity was still in hiding in Albania and remained unaware of these occurrences for at least another year and a half.
Peter Pettigrew holding a weakened and immobile Voldemort
In the summer of 1994, when Voldemort had all but given up hope of obtaining any help from his former servants, Peter Pettigrew, also known as 'Wormtail', who had faked his own death years earlier and hid from authorities in his Animagus form of a rat, travelled to Albania. Wormtail, tired of travelling and hungry, decided to eat something in an inn near the forest in which Voldemort was hiding. He was found there by Bertha Jorkins, a Ministry of Magic worker, who was on holiday in Albania. Although she recognised Peter, Pettigrew lured her into Voldemort's forest hideout and overpowered her, before handing her over to the Dark Lord. Upon torturing her, Voldemort was surprised to find that someone had put a powerful Memory Charm on her.
After breaking the charm, Voldemort learned from her that this year the Triwizard Tournament would be held at Hogwarts and that Alastor Moody, an ex-Auror, will teach Defence Against the Dark Arts. She also revealed to him that Bartemius Crouch Jnr, one of his loyal Death Eaters, who had been imprisoned in Azkaban after his fall and was thought to be dead, is alive. Bartemius Crouch Snr was concealing his son at his home after helping him escape prison.
Jorkins had stumbled upon Crouch Jnr at his house, and Crouch Snr placed a Memory Charm on her so that she would not report it. Voldemort, unable to possess her body and mind, which were damaged by the spells he cast, murdered her. Voldemort, knowing also that Wormtail had been deemed dead by the wizarding community, and would have attracted too much attention, didn't possess his body as well. Together, they built a rudimentary body that Voldemort used for travel and performing magic. While in this form, Voldemort was forced to drink a Rudimentary body potion made from unicorn blood and venom from Nagini, a snake he befriended, to sustain his life. At some point, after Jorkin's murder, he turned Nagini into his last Horcrux, believing his soul being in seven pieces.
Knowing that Dumbledore was sure to have seen to it that the Philosopher's Stone was destroyed, Voldemort knew he would not be able to use the Elixir of Life to create a new body for himself. Voldemort decided to attempt an old piece of ritualistic Dark Magic to create a potion that would restore him to a body. He made plans to travel to England in order to obtain two of the three key ingredients: a bone from his father and the blood of his most hated enemy, Harry Potter. The third ingredient, the flesh of a servant willingly given, he would obtain from Wormtail himself.
Voldemort plotting to use Harry Potter to facilitate his return before killing him
Returning to the Riddle House in Little Hangleton, Voldemort set his sights on finally killing Harry Potter. He considered kidnapping Harry during the 422nd Quidditch World Cup, where protection from his relatives and Dumbledore would not be so effective, but he was not strong enough to do it with the whole horde of Ministry employees running about, and instead began to concoct a plan to have the boy delivered to him instead, which led to Bartemius Crouch's infiltration of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry under the guise of the far-famed Auror Alastor Moody, whom he eventually learned that Albus Dumbledore had persuaded to come out of retirement to fill the role of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher for the 1994–1995 school year.
Voldemort murdering Frank Bryce with the Killing Curse
As they were discussing their plans, Voldemort and Wormtail were unaware that a Muggle caretaker of the Riddle House, Frank Bryce, who has been suspected by the villagers for the murder of the Riddle family for 50 years, had been standing behind the door eavesdropping on their plans. When Nagini arrived in the corridor and spotted him, she informed Voldemort in Parseltongue about his presence. Voldemort invited him into the room and after a short conversation killed him for overhearing their plan.
During the Quidditch World Cup, Barty Crouch Jnr escaped from his father's enchantments and cast the Dark Mark, but was quickly recaptured again. Voldemort and Wormtail went to the Crouch estate, where Voldemort placed Crouch Snr under the Imperius Curse and freed Crouch Jnr for good. Voldemort ordered Crouch Jnr and Pettigrew to capture Moody at his home. When they did it, Crouch placed Moody under Imperius Curse and created Polyjuice Potion which he used to impersonate Moody for the entire school year. He influenced the Tournament for months, ensuring that Harry would be the one to get to the Triwizard Cup first which, unbeknownst to anyone, was a Portkey. Meanwhile Voldemort returned to the Crouch estate with Wormtail, where they ordered Crouch Snr to continue about his business as usual.
When Crouch Snr started to show signs of resisting the Imperius Curse, Voldemort decided it was no longer safe to allow him to leave the house, and instead made him stay home under the presumption of being sick. In late May of 1995 Crouch Snr continued to fight through Voldemort's control and eventually escaped due to Wormtail's negligence.
Voldemort quickly alerted Crouch Jnr to stop his father at all costs, as he surmised that Crouch Snr was intending to tell Dumbledore all about his past actions and Voldemort's plans. Upon Crouch Jnr's success, Voldemort spared Pettigrew from being given to Nagini as meat, instead opting to punish him with the Cruciatus Curse.
Pettigrew preparing to place Voldemort inside the cauldron
On 24 June 1995, Harry, in the spirit of sportsmanship, requested Cedric Diggory to tie with him for the win. When they both touched the Portkey, they were transported to a Little Hangleton graveyard where Wormtail and Voldemort were waiting. Under Voldemort's orders, Pettigrew murdered Cedric with the Killing Curse and went on to have Harry tightly bound and gagged to the Riddle family tombstone.
Voldemort's rebirth
After Wormtail had placed Voldemort's rudimentary body into a cauldron containing the near finished potion, he added the first two ingredients, one of which was his hand, causing it to turn from a poisonous-looking blue to burning red before he proceeded to obtain Harry's blood and added it to the potion for his master's rebirth. Once the final ingredient was added, the potion turned blinding white, sending out bright sparks as it simmered before dying down and a thick white steam issued from the cauldron: the ritual was now complete. Voldemort regained his physical body, and emerged from the cauldron. Calling on Wormtail to robe him, the reborn Dark Lord took some time examining his body and getting reaccustomed to it. Then he called for his servant to show him his arm and used the now activated Dark Mark to summon his Death Eaters.
Voldemort confronting his Death Eaters over their lack of faith in his eventual return
Those who were perhaps most loyal to him, save for those who willingly went to Azkaban in his name, appeared. Voldemort welcomed them before he scorned them for believing him to be dead and informed them that he would expect better of them now that he had returned.
The Dark Lord told the Death Eaters of the events that had led to his first downfall, his years in hiding before he tried to steal the Philosopher's Stone by possessing Quirrell and eventual defeat before finally of how Pettigrew had located him, and they set out to orchestrate his resurrection. He rewarded Wormtail by constructing a silver hand.
Voldemort deflecting Harry's Disarming Spell
Voldemort then set his attention on Harry, and began to mock and humiliate the boy before the Death Eaters. He then had Harry untied so he could force the young wizard into a duel where the Dark Lord had a greater advantage over Harry. When Harry refused to observe the formalities of a wizard's duel, Voldemort used the Imperius Curse to force Harry to bow to him. After inflicting the Cruciatus Curse on Harry several times and attempting the Imperius Curse again, which Harry was able to resist the second time, Voldemort was ready to end the one-sided duel and kill Harry once and for all. Yet as Voldemort cast Avada Kedavra, Harry simultaneously cast Expelliarmus and their twin-core wands became locked in Priori Incantatem.
Voldemort duelling Harry in a battle of wills, echoes appearing as a result of Priori Incantatem
People who had been killed by Voldemort's wand came out as spectral visions: First, Diggory, next Bryce, then Jorkins, and followed by Lily and James Potter. They encouraged Harry, while distracting Voldemort. Harry pulled away and had enough time to grab Cedric's body and the Triwizard Cup to return to Hogwarts. This infuriated Voldemort, as he lost his chance at killing Harry right then and there, allowing Harry to alert Dumbledore to Voldemort's return, which created obvious obstacles in his plans to regain his power over the Wizarding World.
Back at Hogwarts, Crouch Jnr was discovered by Dumbledore and Harry but was subjected to the Dementor's Kiss before he could be put on trial before the Wizengamot. Thus, the only knowledge of Voldemort's return was Harry's word, which was vigorously disputed by the Ministry of Magic. Voldemort was able to grow in power in secret, concentrating on recruiting many wizards as well as the giants to his side in addition to stealing the full record of the prophecy regarding himself and Harry.
In 1995, Dumbledore reconvened the Order of the Phoenix once more, using Sirius Black's family home at 12 Grimmauld Place as headquarters. Harry, Ron and Hermione Granger set up a similar organisation at Hogwarts called Dumbledore's Army, which was originally created to thwart the Ministry's meddling at the school under Dolores Umbridge.
Daily Prophet article showing the Ministry trying to libel Harry Potter and anyone who believed him
Thanks to the Ministry's denial of Voldemort's return and the Daily Prophet's smear campaign against Dumbledore and Harry, the general public was left unaware and ignorant of his presence, making it easy for his operations to run smoothly and without interference. Eventually,  Voldemort travelled to Azkaban and freed several of his most loyal Death Eaters, such as Bellatrix Lestrange. Voldemort had little trouble with this, as many of the Dementors were happy to obey him. The Dark wizards returned to his side thereafter.
Voldemort's first attempt at securing the prophecy was to have Malfoy put Order member Sturgis Podmore under the Imperius Curse and send him to take the prophecy. However, Sturgis was unable to get into the Department of Mysteries.
Voldemort breaking Azkaban's gates
His next attempt was to use the Imperius Curse on an Unspeakable named Broderick Bode. He was ordered to retrieve the prophecy, but was seriously injured in the process and was put into a permanent ward at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. From this, Voldemort learned that the only people who could retrieve a prophecy are the people who are included in the prophecy. Voldemort could not risk going into the Ministry himself, so he used a telepathic link through Harry's scar to cause him to go there instead.
Voldemort's false vision of torturing Sirius Black
Members of Dumbledore's Army, including Harry, Hermione, Ron, Ginny, Neville, and Luna Lovegood went to the Department of Mysteries seeking to rescue Sirius Black, whom they believed to be trapped there. Harry wound up retrieving the prophecy from its shelf. At once, Death Eaters appeared, demanding Harry hand over the prophecy. Dumbledore's Army fought back, and during the battle that ensued, the prophecy was destroyed. Voldemort was forced to come to the Ministry, but upon learning of its destruction he attempted to snuff out Harry's life.
Voldemort duelling Dumbledore in 1996 after the Battle of the Department of Mysteries
Voldemort's attempt was foiled by Dumbledore, and a fantastic duel ensued. Despite Voldemort's overwhelming magical abilities, much to his great frustration, Dumbledore quickly gained the upper-hand against the Dark Lord, calmly avoiding and deflecting Voldemort's barrage of attacks while also maintaining the offensive, despite not even fighting to kill. Though he deflected all of Dumbledore's attempts to contain him, and even managed to nearly kill his former teacher, Voldemort was eventually trapped in an orb of water that he was forced to Disapparate out of.
Harry possessed by Voldemort
Voldemort then attempted to possess Harry instead, hoping Dumbledore would kill the boy in an attempt to destroy Voldemort himself, but Harry's heart, full of grief over the loss of his godfather Sirius, was able to force Voldemort out of his mind. With both the loss of the prophecy and his failure to kill Harry and defeat Dumbledore, Voldemort aborted his mission, dragging Bellatrix along as he fled, but not before Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge and the other Ministry officials arrived, witnessing for themselves that the Dark Lord had, in fact, returned. After a year of operating secretly, Lord Voldemort's cover was now blown and the remaining Death Eaters incapacitated by the Order, including Lucius, were taken into custody and sent to Azkaban.
Sometime following this, Voldemort would secretly engage in a sexual relationship with Bellatrix Lestrange. Out of this union would be born their daughter Delphini, who would be given over to be raised by the Rowle family, a family sworn to Voldemort. At another point, Voldemort discovered that Malfoy had been careless with the diary Horcrux and it had been destroyed, leaving Voldemort highly furious.
The Daily Prophet confirming Voldemort's return
With Voldemort no longer needing to keep his actions silent, the Second Wizarding War had begun. The Dementors left Azkaban to side with the Dark Lord, who could offer them more scope for their powers. As a result, there were many attacks by Voldemort's army. Mass Muggle killings were rampant; what was claimed to be a hurricane to the Muggle world was in fact a rampage by the giants, whom Voldemort had drawn into allegiance. Voldemort himself duelled and killed Amelia Bones, the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, who was described as having put up a good fight against him and as one of the greatest witches of the age. Dementor attacks were daily, the effect on the Muggles manifested in severe depression and grim weather. Voldemort attempted to blackmail Cornelius Fudge, and when he stood his ground, the Dark Lord initiated the destruction of the Brockdale Bridge, sending at least twelve cars into the water.
In July 1996, Voldemort required a spy within Hogwarts and inducted Lucius Malfoy's son Draco as a Death Eater. Forced to concede he could not fight and win against his old teacher, the Dark Lord ordered Draco to kill Dumbledore, for he wished to punish Lucius for his failings by giving his son a task he could not do. If Draco failed, he would meet terrible consequences. However, Draco was able to sneak a group of Death Eaters into Hogwarts through a pair of Vanishing Cabinets that connected Borgin and Burkes with the Room of Requirement. The Battle of the Astronomy Tower ensued. Voldemort's plans were carried out when Snape used the Killing Curse on Dumbledore, as Draco himself was unable to bring himself to commit murder despite the threat he was under. Although the Death Eaters fled Hogwarts, the intrusion of the castle signified that there was no longer a single place safe from the Dark Lord.
Meeting at Malfoy Manor
Voldemort took over Malfoy Manor as his headquarters. During the summer of 1997, he captured the Hogwarts Professor of Muggle Studies, Charity Burbage, and killed her during a meeting with his Death Eaters before feeding her to Nagini. Voldemort also imprisoned and interrogated the kidnapped wandmaker, Garrick Ollivander, about why his wand could not duel against Harry's.
Voldemort killing Charity Burbage during the meeting held at Malfoy Manor
Ollivander revealed that their wands shared the same core, and would not work properly against each other. This came as a great relief to Voldemort, who worried that Harry had escaped from him in the graveyard by superior skill. Ollivander told Voldemort that he merely needed another's wand, and so he took Lucius Malfoy's. This served as a way to punish and demean the Malfoy family. At this point, he was nearly ready to conquer the Ministry, while insisting that Rufus Scrimgeour must be surrounded entirely before he made his next move.
Harry Potter's wand acting of its own accord against Voldemort during the sky battle, destroying the borrowed wand
On 27 July 1997, when Harry left 4 Privet Drive for the final time, Voldemort flew to the scene with his Death Eaters to fight the Order of the Phoenix. In the ensuing battle, Voldemort murdered Alastor Moody. When he attempted to attack Harry, Harry's wand acted of its own accord, releasing golden fire at him and destroying Malfoy's wand. Before Voldemort could react, Harry reached the protection of the home of Ted and Andromeda Tonks, and Voldemort was forced to retreat.
Voldemort torturing Ollivander
Voldemort returned to his headquarters at Malfoy Manor and, accompanied by Peter Pettigrew, accused Ollivander of deliberately misleading him and tortured him with the Cruciatus Curse. Ollivander told him truthfully that never in wandlore has he ever heard of such a thing happening between two wands. Voldemort ordered Ollivander to tell him everything he knew about the legendary wand known as the Elder Wand.
The officials and the puppet minister that Voldemort installed to run the Ministry and enforce the new regime
Shortly after this, the Ministry of Magic was compromised and fell to the power of Voldemort when Minister Rufus Scrimgeour was tortured for information and murdered, with the official version being that he retired. News of this came to the Order of the Phoenix during the wedding of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour at the Burrow due to Kingsley Shacklebolt's Patronus.
Voldemort established a totalitarian police state, with Pius Thicknesse, under the Imperius Curse, serving as a puppet Minister for Magic and Death Eater Corban Yaxley as the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. The Muggle-Born Registration Commission was created to round up Muggle-borns and imprison them in Azkaban. Harry Potter was declared Undesirable No. 1 with a reward on his head, on the basis he was wanted for questioning over the death of Dumbledore. Severus Snape, meanwhile, took over as Headmaster of Hogwarts, while Death Eater siblings Amycus Carrow and Alecto Carrow became teachers.
Voldemort placed a Taboo on his name which enabled his Death Eaters to instantly locate anyone who spoke it out loud in the open. Voldemort chose not to publicly declare himself Minister of Magic in order to maintain an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty.
Voldemort interrogating Gregorovitch, seconds before killing him
With his servants taking care of business in Britain, Voldemort left Great Britain to seek out the acclaimed wandmaker Mykew Gregorovitch and obtain the Elder Wand. Eventually, after murdering several people who got in his way, Voldemort found him, but was informed that the wand had been stolen. Voldemort performed Legilimency on Gregorovitch and saw the memory of a young blond boy who stole the wand. Voldemort demanded to know the identity of the thief, but when Gregorovitch didn't know it, Voldemort killed him.
Voldemort interrogating Grindelwald, seconds before killing him
On Christmas Eve of 1997, Nagini summoned Voldemort to Godric's Hollow, where Harry and Hermione Granger were visiting the graves of Harry's parents and investigating the possibility that Bathilda Bagshot might have the Sword of Gryffindor. Harry and Hermione narrowly managed to escape just as he arrived. However, Voldemort found a picture of the aforementioned blond boy at Bagshot's home; this boy turned out to be none other than Dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald, whom Dumbledore had defeated in 1945.
Voldemort testing the Elder Wand's power after removing it from Dumbledore's tomb
In March of 1998, Voldemort travelled to Austria and broke into Nurmengard prison, where Grindelwald was being held, and demanded to know the location of the Elder Wand. Grindelwald baffled Voldemort by being completely unafraid of him and saying that he welcomed death. Voldemort then murdered him in a rage without gaining any information.
At that moment, Bellatrix Lestrange summoned him by pressing the Dark Mark. Harry Potter had accidentally broken the Taboo an hour prior, and he and his friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, were captured by a group of Snatchers led by Fenrir Greyback, and were brought to Malfoy Manor. He departed Austria to end Harry's life, but just before he could arrive, they managed to escape with the assistance of house-elf Dobby. The arriving Voldemort caused physical harm for Bellatrix and the Malfoys, and forbade them to leave the manor as punishment.
Shortly after this, Voldemort deduced that Dumbledore, who had defeated Grindelwald, had won the Elder Wand. Voldemort then went to Hogwarts, where he met with Snape and proceeded to break into Dumbledore's tomb and thus stole the Elder Wand.
Voldemort, upon learning that one of his Horcruxes, Hufflepuff's Cup, was stolen, kills the bearers of bad news in a fit of rage
On 1 May 1998, Voldemort was informed by several goblins from Gringotts that Harry Potter and his friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, had robbed the Lestrange vault. This caused Voldemort to panic, and when he was informed that a small golden cup had been stolen, he flew into a rage. Voldemort massacred all those who told him the news, having realised at that moment that Harry was hunting his Horcruxes. However, he could not figure out how the boy had discovered his secret when he never told anyone.
In truth, Dumbledore and Harry had worked out, from studying Voldemort's past, that he had created Horcruxes, and also what they were and where they were hidden. Dumbledore first theorised about the Horcruxes and then passed the knowledge onto Harry; from there, Harry was able to complete the hunt. Voldemort listed all the locations of his Horcruxes in his mind, unaware that Harry was connected to his mind at the time. He unwittingly revealed that his last Horcrux was at Hogwarts, just as Harry previously suspected. This caused Harry, Ron, and Hermione to venture to Hogwarts.
Following these revelations, Voldemort went to check out the Gaunt Shack and the Cave, only to discover to his fury that the Horcruxes stored there were missing and thus were likely destroyed.
Voldemort and his army beginning the siege of Hogwarts Castle
Voldemort then returned to Hogwarts, where the residents had already ousted the Death Eaters teaching there and had begun preparing a defence against him. Voldemort rounded up his entire army of Death Eaters, Snatchers, Werewolves, Giants, and Dementors, and commanded his army to fight the Order of the Phoenix members, professors, and students who were in the castle: the Battle of Hogwarts ensued.
Voldemort ordering Nagini to kill Snape in the Shrieking Shack
Voldemort himself was not present at the opening stage of the battle, as he was staying within the Shrieking Shack, feeling there was no need for him to fight at the time. While in the shack, he investigated why the Elder Wand did not work any differently from his old wand. He came to the conclusion that it needed to accept him as a master and ordered Nagini to kill Snape. He believed this would solve the problem by transferring mastery of the wand to himself, assuming that since Snape killed Dumbledore then he was the current master of the wand.
Harry willingly letting Voldemort hit him with the Killing Curse
Voldemort then called a one-hour armistice, requesting Harry in exchange for peace and no further deaths. Unbeknownst to Voldemort, Harry carried within him the seventh Horcrux: the scar on his forehead, which was formed when Voldemort failed to kill him as an infant. When Harry met Voldemort in the Forbidden Forest, Voldemort used the Killing Curse on him almost immediately, but only destroyed the Horcrux, rendering his scar 'normal'.
What was not revealed to Voldemort was that when he used Harry's blood three years prior in order to gain himself a new body, the blood passed Harry's mother's protection to Voldemort and anchored Harry to the living world through the Dark Lord. Both Harry and Voldemort temporarily fell unconscious, and Voldemort's maimed soul appeared in Limbo where Harry spoke to Dumbledore.
Unsure of what had just happened, Voldemort ordered Narcissa Malfoy to check Harry's body. Narcissa did so and pronounced Harry dead, eliciting celebration from the Death Eaters. Voldemort then declared that no man could threaten him any more. He degraded Harry's body by performing the Cruciatus Curse, then forced the captured Hagrid to carry it back to Hogwarts for all to see. Voldemort did not realise, however, that Narcissa had lied to him in order to enter the castle so as to find her son.
Voldemort gloating after Harry's 'death'
As Voldemort and his army marched to Hogwarts, Voldemort claimed Harry had been killed while trying to escape. Neville, instead of surrendering, charged at Voldemort. After Neville refused to join him, Voldemort placed a Full Body-Bind Curse and the Sorting Hat on him and set the hat on fire to make an example of him, claiming that Slytherin would be the only Hogwarts House from then on. But at that moment, reinforcements for the Hogwarts defenders arrived. Neville was able to throw off the curse and pulled Gryffindor's Sword from the Hat, and used it to decapitate Nagini, destroying the last remaining Horcrux. Enraged, Voldemort attempted to kill Neville, but Harry, now beneath his Invisibility cloak, interfered and cast a Shield Charm between them.
Voldemort forcing himself into Hogwarts
During the second round of the Battle of Hogwarts, Voldemort tried to strike down everyone within his reach and his weakened army forced its way into the castle. In the Great Hall, his army was gradually cut down as Voldemort fought Slughorn, Shacklebolt, and Minerva McGonagall all at once and later blasted them away. When Bellatrix Lestrange was killed by Molly Weasley, Voldemort turned his wand on her in rage. At that time, Harry cast a Shield Charm to protect her, and revealed himself to be very much alive. The two wizards then faced each other in the Great Hall.
Here, Harry mentioned that by willingly sacrificing himself to Voldemort, he had protected everyone he cared about in Hogwarts with the same magic his mother created when she died for him. Harry tried to explain to Voldemort that he had magic Voldemort did not have, and a weapon more powerful than his, in addition to warning Voldemort of the fate that lay in store for him if he was unwilling to feel remorse for his actions. Goading him by using his birth name, Harry told him that Snape's loyalty was with Dumbledore all along, that Dumbledore's death was planned, and that Snape had not been the master of the Elder Wand; Draco had been.
The final duel between Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort
Originally shocked, Voldemort remained unworried, because Harry did not have his original wand, and he told Harry he would kill him and then dispose of Draco to gain full mastery of the Elder Wand. But Harry revealed that he had already disarmed Draco, so the Elder Wand was now rightfully his. Refusing to believe this, Voldemort fired a Killing Curse at Harry, while Harry countered with his 'trademark' spell of Expelliarmus. The Elder Wand refused to kill its true master, and Voldemort's spell rebounded off Harry's, killing the Dark Lord once and for all.
Voldemort's mangled soul in Limbo for eternity
After his death, Voldemort's body was moved to a separate chamber away from the Great Hall. It is unknown what happened to it afterwards, but it can be assumed that his body was disposed of. Meanwhile his mutilated soul was trapped in Limbo for eternity, as the soul is meant to stay whole and intact for a proper afterlife. Because of the destruction done to his soul, he was unable to move on or return to the land of the living as a ghost. After his confirmed death, the wizarding world at large seemed to be able to speak his name without any more fear. In the end, Lord Voldemort, who feared death above all, suffered a much more horrific fate.
The death of Lord Voldemort changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of witches and wizards for the better, and Harry Potter was held in high esteem for removing complications of an enormous variety from many peoples' lives. However, his bloody campaign had left a great deal of damage that would not soon be repaired. Following the restoration of the original timeline, Delphini would attempt to go back in time to the night where Voldemort went after the Potters in Godric's Hollow and prevent him from doing so, hoping to ensure Voldemort was never defeated. Harry, Albus, Draco, Scorpius, Ginny, Ron, and Hermione would then go back to try to stop her.
During this attempt, the group tried to catch her off guard by making Harry disguise himself as Voldemort. While he was eventually discovered, the group was nonetheless able to prevent Delphini's plan from succeeding and captured her. However, before they left back into their own time, both Harry and Delphini were forced to witness Voldemort's attack at Godric's Hollow, resulting in Harry witnessing his parents' deaths, and Delphini seeing her father's first defeat.
During the Calamity which occurred during the 2010s, a portrait of Riddle became one of many things that became Foundables, magical artefacts which appeared throughout the wizarding world without explanation. A memory of a young Riddle also manifested in the world as a Foundable.
More than twenty years following his death, Voldemort's daughter Delphini would attempt to rewrite the timeline in order to bring back her father. Though she would ultimately fail, one of the attempts by Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy to change the timeline and save Cedric and prevent his death (unknowingly to them orchestrated by Delphini herself), would result in a temporary timeline where Cedric never died, and where Voldemort succeeded in killing Harry at the Battle of Hogwarts. This alternate timeline where Voldemort both lived and won the Wizarding War would eventually be prevented and changed back into the original timeline through the efforts of Scorpius and the alternate timeline's versions of Snape, Hermione, and Ron.
Tom Riddle in his youth
During his childhood and early adulthood, Tom Marvolo Riddle was tall and handsome, with pale skin, jet black hair, and dark eyes. When Harry saw him in a memory in the Pensieve, he saw that there was no trace of the Gaunt family in his face, and that he was his father in miniature: 'tall for eleven years old, dark-haired and pale'. Riddle's good looks continued to increase as he grew older, and he cunningly used them to charm many of the teachers at Hogwarts. While in Wool's Orphanage, he wore the standard grey tunic as with all the other children, and switched over to the Hogwarts uniform when he attended the school, gaining the Prefect and Head Boy badges when he attained those positions. When he worked in Borgin and Burkes, he wore a simple black suit. Despite his façade of kindness and politeness, during ecstatic moments (i.e. discovering himself as a wizard and gaining confirmation that creating multiple Horcrux is possible) he was capable of a smile that did not enhance his handsomeness, but instead made him look less human.
Voldemort's appearance after immersing himself in darkness
However, as he became more involved in the Dark Arts, his good looks gradually left him. His features became increasingly waxy and reptilian, his skin became bone-white, and the sclera of his eyes took on a perpetually blood-shot appearance. After he regained his body, his features became even more warped. In his final body, Voldemort was described as having pale white skin, a skeletally thin body, and dark scarlet eyes with cat-like slits for pupils. He had a chalk-white face that resembled a skull, snake-like slits for nostrils, and large hands with unnaturally long fingers like spider's legs.
Voldemort also had no hair or lips. He had long, sharp, pale blue fingernails, and took to wearing a black hooded cloak and several sets of elegant black robes and no shoes. Voldemort had a high, cold voice which was sometimes described as being sibilant. The transformation into this monstrous state is believed to have been the result of creating his Horcruxes, becoming less human as he continued to divide his soul. Dumbledore also speculated that Voldemort may have gained his hideous appearance by also undergoing several dangerous magical transformations.
Voldemort was considered by many to be 'the most evil wizard in hundreds and hundreds of years'. His evil nature far exceeded that of any common evildoer and Dumbledore stated that he 'went beyond normal evil' in the extent of his crimes. Hagrid claimed that while all Dark wizards 'go bad', Voldemort went 'worse than worse'. Indeed, Voldemort speedily developed into a power-obsessed megalomaniac of the worst kind and the worst of any known Dark wizard, being considered by all to be far more evil than even Gellert Grindelwald. He was unable and unwilling to express remorse or empathy for the countless crimes he had committed. This was a stark contrast to Grindelwald, who proved to display genuine remorse for his crimes and even before his fall, pity for those abused for their magic and even if only a little, care for his followers, all which Voldemort completely lacked. These anti-social traits were seen in his childhood, from stealing to disturbing incidences with other orphans. Dumbledore stated that the young Riddle had a certain disregard for rules. In his adult life, he performed the darkest forms of magic and had no regard for human life. He was a prolific killer, as seen by his killing so many that he created an army of Inferi. Voldemort also did not believe in the concept of good and evil, as he made clear to Harry in their encounter at the Mirror of Erised, and that only power and 'those too weak to seek it' truly mattered.
Voldemort murdering Lily Potter without remorse
He was highly intelligent, as evidenced by his top performance at Hogwarts and his tremendous magical achievements, but his interests were narrowly focussed on the usefulness of people, objects, and powers to his goals. His inability to see the larger picture and inattention to events, powers and human traits that were not immediately useful to him was a serious flaw that led to most of his setbacks and ultimately his downfall.
After his first defeat, many (namely Hagrid, Dumbledore, Neville's grandmother among others) believed that he had yet to be truly vanquished, and would one day return on the grounds that there was not enough humanity left in him to die in the first place. At the same time, due to his excessive evil and brutality, others (namely Cornelius Fudge and a good deal of the wizarding world) would deny he was still alive for a sense of self-comfort, until evidence was given to their very eyes. During his lifetime, including much of his childhood, he was shown to be highly ruthless, cruel, merciless, and sadistic, showing as little mercy to his followers as he did his enemies. According to Dumbledore, he felt no desire or need for human companionship or friendship. The closest he came to caring about another living being was feeling affection for his pet snake, Nagini.
Voldemort thought of everything in terms of power (which he equated to domination through magical ability). He was somewhat wilfully ignorant of people or matters which he considered to have no value. He was dismissive of the unique magic of house-elves due to their social status, and thus was dealt major setbacks by house-elves on two occasions: first Kreacher, who escaped the cave with Slytherin's locket due to the sacrifice of his beloved master, Regulus Black, and Dobby, who bypassed the defences of Voldemort's headquarters (because Voldemort had neglected to render it inaccessible to house elves as he had to wizards) and helped Harry escape right before Voldemort could arrive to kill him.
Voldemort had a need for independence that bordered on pathological, and he preferred to operate in secrecy and solitude whenever possible. Dumbledore claimed that even if he had managed to obtain the Elixir of Life, he would have eventually found his dependency on it intolerable because it would have robbed him of his sense of self-reliance. Instead, he preferred to make Horcruxes, which were magical extensions of himself. Voldemort was a sociopathic narcissist, to the point that he frequently referred to himself in the third person as 'Lord Voldemort'. He detested being common, as when he heard of another person named Tom, he expressed his dislike; Voldemort always considered himself unique and above all others due to his magical powers among an orphanage of Muggles, his rare ability to speak Parseltongue among his schoolmates, and his own esteemed lineage as the Heir of Slytherin. Ironically, Voldemort's actions to ensure his own league of fame made him no different from any tyrant who would come to fear the ones they oppressed. It was said that if Voldemort looked into the Mirror of Erised, he would see himself, all-powerful and eternal.
Despite his independent streak, it is not to say Voldemort would completely reject all assistance, if only he was forced into a desperate measure. When he lost his physical form at the Potters' cottage, he placed his hopes for his faithful Death Eaters to find him and help restore his body, to the point that he even feared that they all abandoned him, and when Peter Pettigrew finally came back to him, he relied on his cowardly servant to brew the potion in order to maintain the rudimentary body as well as carry that body around for transport. In between the time of his first defeat and rebirth, Voldemort came to rely on Quirinus Quirrell to seize the Philosopher's Stone for him, while using the young wizard's body as a temporary way to regain a grip on the physical world. Although Voldemort rejected the use of the Elixir of Life for immortality, he would be prepared to drink it to create a new body for himself, but nothing more.
Aside from his desperate times, Voldemort would also rely on his Death Eaters and army of versatile beings to do his bidding, knowing that he could not overtake the Ministry all by himself (or with only a small handful of Death Eaters), or depend on them to handle the more trivial matters that he did not think was worth his effort. He even trusted the conquered Ministry of Magic to his army while he would focus on other matters personally. He entrusted two of his precious Horcruxes to his lieutenant Death Eaters, Bellatrix Lestrange and Lucius Malfoy, knowing they have the resources and skills to provide satisfactory security, but did not tell them the truth of these unholy artefacts, furthering his reliance on their skills over any genuine trust. Overall, Voldemort's need for solitude and independence is not so much as doing absolutely everything himself, but to make use of everyone around him to the fullest without ever gaining any sentimental attachment to them, as he was easily prepared to discard anyone or anything once they fulfilled their purpose.
Voldemort had very little attachment to anything that did not amplify his fame or existence, as he viewed his followers as nothing more than disposable pawns to carry out his tasks while only valuing their usefulness and physical abilities. Despite doting on pure-bloods, he was willing to execute any of them (or anyone else) if it suited him, even if they were completely loyal to him. Even his wand, which served him powerfully and faithfully for nearly six decades, was disposable when he discovered the even more powerful Elder Wand. The reason he valued his Horcruxes was because they were an extension of himself, thereby giving him independence, which was a reason why he carefully chose objects of extreme fame or importance to become worthy hosts to his precious soul.
Voldemort tormenting Harry Potter
Voldemort did not believe in anyone but himself, nor did he value his fellow human beings except to the extent that they were useful to him. He often described his followers as 'friends' and his Death Eaters even as 'family', but in no way treated them like an ordinary person does with their friends or family. He demanded his followers' unswerving loyalty and obedience, spitefully took revenge for their mistakes or even bad luck by torture or going after family members, and mistreated or even killed them at the slightest provocation. His cold-blooded murder of the man he believed to be one of his most powerful and useful followers, Severus Snape, just to be sure he was the true master of the Elder Wand and his callous attempt to sacrifice Draco Malfoy by ordering him to assassinate Dumbledore as punishment for Lucius Malfoy's blunders, are evidence of this. He was, however, capable of rewarding his followers should they aid him, as he, when otherwise admonishing Wormtail for having fear act as his motivating factor in returning to Voldemort instead of genuine loyalty to him, nevertheless supplied him with a silver hand to replace the one he lost when restoring Voldemort to life, specifically citing that Wormtail had nevertheless proved his usefulness in the past few months.
The fact that Voldemort was conceived through coerced 'love' (theorised to be a love potion by Dumbledore or to be the Imperius Curse by Harry)—administered/used by witch Merope Gaunt to Muggle Tom Riddle Snr - was related to his inability to understand love: it was a symbolic way of showing that he came from a loveless union - but of course, everything would have changed if Merope had chosen to live for the sake of raising her son with love. The enchantment under which Tom Riddle fathered Voldemort is important because it shows coercion, and there can't be many more prejudicial ways to enter the world than as the result of such a union.
As a child at Hogwarts, and in the early years of his adult life, Riddle was considered an intelligent, polite young man who showed an enthusiasm to learn and was able to use his superficial charm to make many do his bidding, thereby showing his skill at being an exceptional master manipulator. He described himself being viewed by others as poor, but brilliant, parent-less, but so brave, a school prefect and a model student. His reputation as a model pupil had earned him the trust and respect of his teachers and of the customers he was sent to deal with at Borgin and Burkes. However, this was all a ruse, as he was very manipulative, with Dumbledore claiming that there were a number of 'nasty incidents' that happened throughout his time at Hogwarts that the authorities were never completely able to link to him. In his youth, Voldemort was capable of charming everyone at Hogwarts except Albus Dumbledore and surrounded himself with a group of 'friends' which would eventually become his Death Eaters. This was in direct contrast to his behaviour in the orphanage, where he terrorised his fellow residents, openly enough to leave a negative reputation among the children and staff, but discreet enough to avoid prosecution.
Voldemort brutally and sadistically interrogated Gregorovitch before murdering him, even though the wandmaker hadn't hesitated to talk
Voldemort's arrogance inevitably led to his major downfall. He suffered from thanatophobia, a pathological fear of death, which he regarded as a shameful and ignominious human weakness. He equated death with being defeated or loss of domination, the ultimate humiliation. His Boggart would be his own corpse, which shows his extreme fear of death. The biggest difference between Harry and Voldemort was that Harry, as the true Master of Death, accepted mortality, which ultimately made him a stronger person than his nemesis. His fear of death and obsession with immortality led him to create seven Horcruxes, a feat unheard of.
Voldemort had an extremely obsessive nature. When Harry glimpsed into his mind, he often saw repetitive imagery, symptomatic of Voldemort's inability to let go of thoughts or diversify his interests. In his fifth year, he travelled with Voldemort down the locked corridor in the Department of Mysteries for many nights. During the second war, he followed Voldemort's unfolding obsession with the 'merry-faced thief', Grindelwald, and the Elder Wand. He was able to use Voldemort's compulsive mental check of his Horcruxes to uncover the location of the one he had not yet found: Ravenclaw's Diadem, hidden at Hogwarts.
Voldemort's main obsessions were immortality, pure-blood supremacy, the attempts on Harry Potter's life, and the search for the Elder Wand. This was reflected in his daily habits as well: he had a magpie-like tendency to collect lots of small objects and hold onto them. As a child, he is shown hoarding things that he stole from the other orphans, which eventually blossomed into his conception of the Horcruxes. This could also have been seen as trophy taking, a trait seen in serial killers. This was especially seen after a particularly cruel act, such as the incident at the Cave, and creating Horcruxes after killing. Dumbledore said to Harry in the Limbo King's Cross that his obsession with the Elder Wand was to rival his obsession with Harry himself. The Dark Lord stopped at nothing in his many attempts to kill Harry Potter.
The search for the Elder Wand was an extension of his obsession with murdering Harry, which, in turn, was an extension of his preoccupation with immortality (which he felt that Harry's very existence threatened). Ironically, his obsession of eliminating Harry in person, an obsession seemingly multiplied by every single failed attempt, is what led to his own death. Dumbledore noted that Voldemort was no different from any other tyrant in paranoid fear of an individual rising against him because of his own obsessive actions. This trait could be traced back to his childhood when he was convinced at first that Dumbledore had come to take him to an asylum. In another ironic twist, this indicates that Voldemort failed to make himself unique as he had the flaw of any evil tyrant.
Few ever saw anything troubling about the young Tom Riddle, but Albus Dumbledore observed psychological issues and their potential dark implications from their very first meeting. Dumbledore described a 'magpie-like tendency' to collect trophies, as well as a need to obsess over his collection, that led him to make a correct guess at what was behind the secret of his immortality: multiple Horcruxes. Dumbledore noted a similarity between Voldemort and other famous tyrants, in that obsessive actions driven by paranoia can bring about the thing most feared. Tom Riddle remained charming and well-liked as a young adult, and at first seemed to be aiming lower on the scale of ambition than his talents would have supported. He used his stint at Borgin and Burkes to develop his knowledge of the Dark Arts, and to track and collect powerful magical objects. Only a few people ever had an ominous feeling about his imminent rise as a powerful dark wizard: Hepzibah Smith, who saw his eyes flash red with avarice when he saw her treasured artefacts, and, again, Albus Dumbledore, who refused to give him a job teaching at Hogwarts. realising he would use his influence as a teacher to recruit students and do evil.
Gradually taking more and more power, eliminating rivals and those who stood up to him, and transforming his appearance and his social image into a serpentine persona that inspired a level of fear so profound that wizards avoided mentioning his name even after they thought him dead, Voldemort reached the peak of his powers in 1980.
Despite his narcissistic nature, Voldemort could acknowledge his mistakes, as shown when he accepted the fact that the destruction of his body was more his fault then Harry's, even going so far to openly admit this to his Death Eaters. However, though Voldemort was capable of admitting his mistakes, Harry asserted that he didn't learn from them, especially relating to matters he did not value such as love. When he was angry, Voldemort was unpredictable: he was capable of being cold and calm, but could also explode with rage and when he lost his temper he never hesitated to slay even his own loyal followers. He expected complete respect from his Death Eaters but did not truly care for any of them in return. He did rescue Bellatrix Lestrange after his duel with Albus Dumbledore, and also screamed and attempted to avenge her after she was killed by Molly Weasley. It is likely, though, that he was furious about the loss of a very powerful and talented servant as well as the mother of his daughter Delphini, rather than truly missing Bellatrix as a person. Bellatrix herself was obsessively in love with him (incidentally, this somewhat mirrored the fascination that Voldemort's mother had with his father), but he never returned the romantic feelings due to his lack of understanding and desire for love, despite having engaged in a purely physical relationship with Bellatrix which resulted in the birth of their daughter.
One flaw that Voldemort did not possess, despite his egomania, was thinking himself infallible. He acknowledged his mistakes on several occasions, and with the candour and charm that had won him followers in the first place, he sought to make hay of his missteps, openly revealing such unflattering information to his followers and using it to illustrate how he could use his wits to further enhance his powers.
Upon his return, Voldemort showed a degree of calculated humility. He did not announce his rebirth to anyone besides supporters, realising he was not yet strong enough to take on the Ministry. He also showed his followers leniency, even though they had not sought to help him after his downfall, realising he could not afford to mistreat them until returning to full strength.
His first downfall was brought about by his greatest flaw: disregarding that which he could not understand. He did not realise that trying to cast a Killing Curse on a victim after killing a protector who had voluntarily sacrificed themselves would result in the curse rebounding off due to the magic of love.
Voldemort's talents for sowing discord and mistrust showed during the Second War, as did his violent temper. As he neared the last days of his life, he made error after error, alienating his followers with a grisly display of mass murder in the aftermath of the Gringotts robbery, tipping Harry off to the location of the last unknown Horcrux due to a compulsive mental check of their location accompanied by fear, which he should have known would make the thoughts readable on his and Harry's soul fragment connection, and neglecting to notice the signs of Harry's closeness to defeating him, Snape's duplicity and Dumbledore's last plan.
Deep under his terrifying demeanour, Voldemort was capable of fear whenever he didn't feel that things were completely in his control. On some occasions, such as when he tried to murder Harry while he was a defenceless baby, Voldemort displayed cowardice. He was also furious, yet terrified, when he found out that Helga Hufflepuff's Cup was stolen. Voldemort was also more afraid than Harry was when their wands underwent Priori Incantatem, although he refused assistance from his followers due to his desire to kill Harry unaided. Nevertheless, Voldemort was capable of suppressing and concealing his fears, and confronting the things that threatened him. When he entered Morfin Gaunt's home as a teenager and confronted his deranged uncle, even Harry could not help but admire Riddle's complete lack of fear when witnessing the event in Dumbledore's Pensieve. Gaunt was drunk, unstable and showed murderous inhumanity whilst wielding a knife in teenage Riddle's face, all of which nonplussed him. Voldemort was even bold enough to engage Albus Dumbledore in a duel, despite Dumbledore being the only wizard Voldemort was ever said to have feared.
Voldemort was also a pathological liar and a hypocrite, even when he was a child. He was sadistic to other children in the orphanage where he grew up and opened the Chamber of Secrets while at Hogwarts, resulting in the death of a fellow student. When confronted by Dumbledore on both occasions he denied any involvement. He also lied to Slughorn about his reasons for wanting to gain knowledge on Horcruxes. A further example of this is how Voldemort deemed himself a 'Merciful Lord' with respect for his enemies, when in fact he considered everyone he had killed to be 'worthless (as he held no regard for them) and nameless' (he had killed so many that they became vague figures and not people with names to him) and used the words 'The more the better' regarding how many people died fighting his army. Despite this, he had an intense hatred of being lied to or anyone trying to deceive him or withhold the truth. As a child, he demanded that Dumbledore tell him the truth in such a forceful way that Dumbledore was deeply unsettled by the young wizard's demeanour. Upon mastery of Legilimency, he was able to easily tell whether he is being lied to from most people, and would warn them rather menacingly, as he snarled at Pettigrew for trying to deny his fear of the Dark Lord's mangled temporary body, and told Frank Bryce 'do not lie to Lord Voldemort'.
Voldemort also announced to Hogwarts after Harry's supposed demise that he had died whilst trying to run away for fear of his own life, despite knowing full well that Harry had willingly walked to what he believed was his death in the hopes of saving his friends. However, Voldemort did have moments in his life where he was willing to keep his word: after his discussion on Horcruxes with Professor Slughorn he promised not to tell anyone about the subject (though this was mainly for Voldemort's own safety) and gave Hogwarts a chance to turn Harry Potter over to him and leave the school untouched (however this was only keeping with his 'Merciful Lord' façade). He also denied his blood purity having been a half-blood himself.
Despite the fact that he usually maintained a calm, reserved and sophisticated persona, Lord Voldemort was capable of phenomenally explosive and violent fits of rage. His rage would often get the better of him, as shown when he duelled Harry Potter in Little Hangleton, casting curses violently and screaming with fury whilst attacking Harry. He also roared with anger whilst duelling Dumbledore. When he experiences these mood swings, he would instinctively cast Killing Curses at whomever he saw first. The most famous display of fury was when he discovered that Gringotts Bank had been infiltrated, specifically his vault, and he murdered every survivor of the incident simply out of wrath, further supporting his fear of dying.
Voldemort was shown to be highly intelligent and charismatic, able to inspire many powerful and influential wizards to follow him as his loyal Death Eaters. He could not care less what happened to anyone else, as long as he got what he wanted or avoided discovery for his crimes, shown as how he framed Hagrid, his uncle Morfin, and the House Elf Hokey for murders he had committed himself. He was never concerned with the consequences of his actions, only if they either benefited him or got him into trouble with the law. A prime example of how selfish Voldemort was, is how he killed Severus Snape, arguably the man who had (as far as he knew) served him more faithfully and helpfully than anyone, simply to unlock the full power of the Elder Wand.
However, despite Voldemort's general malicious ways, he had proven that he was capable of acknowledging the desires of others, but only if those desires did not interfere with his ambitions and were presented by someone whom he deemed a worthy servant. The only time this was ever really seen was when he agreed to Severus Snape's plea for Lily Evans' life. Although he did not agree to spare Lily unconditionally, he said he would offer her the chance to live if she did not attempt to stop him from murdering her son. Uncharacteristically, Voldemort followed through on his promise to Snape and gave Lily several chances to step aside. Doing this was what caused Lily's death to be a willing sacrifice, and in turn, is what protected Harry from Voldemort in the first place.
One odd incident in Voldemort's life, discovered by Harry through an inadvertent mind-reading, occurred on the night he murdered Lily and James. As he walked down a Godric's Hollow lane on his way to their house, on his way to kill the infant Harry Potter, in a most unusual act of mercy, he decided to spare the life of a Muggle child who had complimented the impressiveness of his 'Hallowe'en costume', not realising that Voldemort was not in costume, but a black-robed wizard with a pale, snakelike face. Killing him was an act Voldemort had deemed 'unnecessary'. Voldemort's reasoning for this was not made clear, though it can be surmised that Voldemort had chosen not to use magic until he had arrived at the Potters' house in case his presence was detected by any spies. Another possibility is that Voldemort simply thought the child was not worth his time or effort.
He also seemed to have respected, and sometimes even admired, bravery and skill, even when displayed by some of his enemies. After his return in 1995, he remarked to Harry that Harry's father had died 'straight-backed and proud'. Previously, at the end of Harry's first year at Hogwarts, he had referred to the Potters as 'brave' and said that James Potter 'put up a courageous fight'. During the Battle of Hogwarts, he appreciated Neville Longbottom's 'spirit and bravery' and wanted him to become a Death Eater, though this was also partially due to Neville being a pureblood. Although not caring for his Death Eaters, he did appreciate loyalty. When he learned that the Lestranges went to Azkaban rather than denounce him, Voldemort was so moved that he promised to reward them beyond their dreams. Similarly, when Harry seemed to take too long to arrive to offer himself to be killed to save the Hogwarts students and staff, he expressed some disappointment at Harry apparently abandoning the school to save himself, as he had hoped his ultimatum would ultimately drive Harry to be killed by him.
Voldemort apparently had a small degree of honour, as just before his duel with Harry in the graveyard and Harry tried to flee, Voldemort deliberately missed his Avada Kedavra and scolded Harry for turning his back on him, insisting that he refuses to kill Harry while the latter's back was turned and preferred to have Harry facing him when being killed, and during the Priori Incantatem event, he repeatedly insists that none of the Death Eaters interfere even on his behalf. However, it should be noted that he only did this because he was obsessed with wanting to kill Harry himself, and more importantly, he wanted to make sure he saw Harry's life leave his eyes before him.
Voldemort, an exceptionally powerful wizard
Typical for a Slytherin and unlike his blood traitor mother, especially as the Heir of Salazar Slytherin, Voldemort greatly believed in blood purity. In fact, his beliefs were far more extreme than an average pure-blood supremacist. At the age of 16, Voldemort released Salazar Slytherin's Basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets in order to purge the school of Mudbloods, thus showing his murderous hatred towards them, and kept a diary Horcrux in order to continue his actions, putting at risk a precious piece of his soul for his ideals. However, he was too much of a coward to give his life for his "cause".
Voldemort's obsession with blood purity also bred a strong disgust and hatred for the Muggle world. There are several indications — such as the statue Voldemort erected in the Ministry of Magic depicting Muggles being crushed — that Voldemort planned to manipulate and take over the Muggle government of Britain had he been successful. In addition, Voldemort, shortly after his return to physical form, told Harry about his Muggle family, only later to rebuke their memory and herald the return of his 'true family'.
In his later life, Voldemort claimed that Muggle-borns were actually Muggles who stole magic from real wizards and witches, rather than actually inheriting it rightfully, and so deserved to be severely punished for it. Whether he knowingly made this theory up or truly believed it (or if he was the first proponent of it) is unknown. He ruthlessly murdered Charity Burbage for supporting Muggle-borns. Despite his racist beliefs, however, he allowed the werewolf Fenrir Greyback to join his cause, though he did not consider him an official Death Eater. It is also interesting to note that he was willing to allow Lily Potter to join him, despite the fact that she was Muggle-born. This showed that if the wizard or witch was exceptionally talented, Voldemort was capable of suppressing his hatred towards Muggle-borns and half-bloods, as long as they were willing to serve him.
Despite his hatred towards non-pure-bloods, Voldemort himself was a half-blood. Under his rule for a year, he allowed half-bloods to continue to attend Hogwarts, albeit with less respect. Voldemort was ashamed of his Muggle-sided parentage so much that he denied it, left misleading hints that he was a pure-blood and proudly presented his ancestry from Salazar Slytherin. However, Bartemius Crouch Jnr appeared to be aware that Voldemort was a half-blood, telling Harry that he and Voldemort both had very disappointing fathers (though it was more likely that Voldemort simply relayed the disappointing father part while ignoring his blood status).
Voldemort's origins were extremely humble, even by Muggle standards: he grew up in an orphanage and his parents were the daughter of the Gaunts, the last decrepit, incest-ridden branch of the Slytherin family, and the son of a haughty, rich Muggle family, who was forced to marry and have a child with Merope. These humble origins made him an unlikely lightning rod for the wizarding aristocracy's pure-blood supremacist values, but due to his power, ability to trace his lineage directly to Salazar Slytherin, and willingness to give their cause a platform and an apparently sympathetic ally, he gained their support, and, in time, put them into a state of impressed terror that rendered their support unwavering.
Voldemort found it useful to maintain a system of followers drawn from the Slytherin-centric Wizarding aristocracy, disaffected paupers with long-gone noble origins, as well as criminal elements, and in their company spoke like one of them, lecturing on themes of blood purity, Muggle inferiority, and the proper order of society. On one occasion, he even tortured and murdered a witch considered to be a blood traitor, Charity Burbage, for their pleasure. But Voldemort did not truly work for their cause, and only allowed them to set up a pure-blood supremacist regime at the Ministry of Magic for his own reasons: to control the government, to compensate them for their service and to ensure their continued loyalty. Voldemort's preoccupations were increasing his own dominion and stamping out opposition: the wizarding aristocracy's concerns were of no real interest to him. The alliance between Voldemort and the Death Eaters was a natural result of Voldemort's ancestry, of having been raised in Slytherin house, and of promises to help them achieve their ends, but there should be no mistake — Voldemort was merely using them.
Despite claiming his actions were for the 'noble work' of purifying the wizarding race, there is evidence that Voldemort treated this with lesser importance than his preoccupations with immortality and domination. During his time studying at Hogwarts, while he used Slytherin's Basilisk to attack Muggle-born students, ultimately using the Basilisk to murder Myrtle, he didn't take credit for the crimes at the time, as doing so would result in getting him into trouble with the legal authorities of the magical community. He framed Rubeus Hagrid to both get away with his actions and to keep Hogwarts from closing down, which were both in his interests at the time. Knowing it wouldn't be safe to open the Chamber of Secrets again with Dumbledore keeping a close eye on him, while he was still at school, he decided to create his Horcrux diary, with the intention of eventually repeating his actions through someone else. It was only after creating his identity of Lord Voldemort, that he began to openly acknowledge himself as the Heir of Slytherin, long after most people would have been able to link him to being both Tom Riddle and the one responsible for opening the Chamber of Secrets the first time round. This shows that while he does not full-heartedly support the pure-blood supremacy ideology (if only using it to enter the elite social circles), he does indeed hold Muggles and Muggle-borns with contempt for their alleged inferiority.
He was more concerned about eliminating threats to his planned eternal domination of the world than ensuring pure-blood supremacy: as demonstrated by his efforts to destroy Albus Dumbledore, Harry Potter, the Order of the Phoenix and any other opposition to his rule. He even went so far as to cast a Taboo on his own name, knowing that the only people who'd dared to speak it were those with the will to oppose him.
Voldemort was also extremely possessive, even toward objects that weren't of any use to him, such as when he discovered the twin cores of his and Harry's wands could not kill each other, so he asked for Lucius Malfoy's wand, but refused to give Lucius his old one, which also complements how egotistical Voldemort was. He also had a tendency to hoard trophies or other oddities from his childhood and transform them into Horcruxes.
Voldemort suffered from delusions of godhood. From an early age, he believed himself to be unique and different to others, telling Albus Dumbledore that he had always believed himself to be special. He frequently referred to himself in third person to further emphasise his own importance, and told Frank Bryce that he was 'much, much more than a man'. His inner thought processes showed that he perceived himself as 'most important and precious', showing the extent of delusions.
Although there was no questioning Voldemort's intellect, which was vastly beyond genius level, he nevertheless displayed symptoms of the mental instability that had pervaded the Gaunt bloodline from which he was descended. He was known for frequent and violent mood swings, being willing to attack anyone within his line of sight when angered. The Dark Lord's temper was so feared that even his most loyal supporters would flee to avoid being on the receiving end of his wrath. He also displayed poor impulse control, such as when he chose to fire a Killing Curse at Harry Potter even after being informed that the Elder Wand was loyal to Harry himself.
Furthermore, due to his immense evil and lack of a human soul, he was completely unable to cast the Patronus Charm, an incredibly powerful and benevolent protective charm that is a manifestation of positive energy, which Voldemort lacked.
Voldemort demonstrates his power in the Ministry of Magic
Lord Voldemort was the most powerful, skilled and dangerous Dark wizard of all time. He was amongst the greatest wizards to have ever lived, often considered to be the second most powerful wizard in history, his only superior being Albus Dumbledore. Voldemort was extremely talented even while still a student of Hogwarts, with Albus Dumbledore himself saying Voldemort was the most brilliant student to have ever attended Hogwarts. As an adult, Voldemort became a tremendously powerful and accomplished wizard of nearly unrivalled skill, admired and feared by even the most powerful wizards and witches. Combined with his utter megalomania, Voldemort was regarded as the most powerful and most dangerous Dark wizard of all time, being the only Dark wizard to surpass Gellert Grindelwald.
Harry Potter being possessed by Voldemort through Legilimency
Voldemort's wandless possible casting of Fiendfyre that took the form of a giant serpent
Lord Voldemort's fearsome visage
Tom Riddle rearranging the letters of his name
Voldemort was born Tom Marvolo Riddle, a name he hated due to it being a common name. When he later learned that his father and namesake was a Muggle, he decided to forge his own name, 'Voldemort', from an anagram of his full name ('Tom Marvolo Riddle' becomes 'I am Lord Voldemort'). He used his middle name, Marvolo, to track down his magical heritage, due to it being a wizarding name. During this time, Voldemort had adopted the name 'The Heir of Slytherin' after learning about the Chamber of Secrets and his descent from Salazar Slytherin. Using this name, he hoped to create a terrifying legacy of his own. Few people ever knew that Voldemort's true name was 'Tom Marvolo Riddle' to begin with.
At first, this name was used to refer to him or to address him. Later, he became so feared in the wizarding community that nearly everyone referred to him only as 'You-Know-Who', 'He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named', or 'The Dark Lord', the last one used primarily by his Death Eaters and other supporters. Fudge even wrote it to the Muggle Prime Minister rather than saying it. According to Death Eaters, not pronouncing his name is a mark of respect. Saying his name to Death Eaters was akin to blasphemy. On Potterwatch, he was called 'Chief Death Eater'. Most people either flinched, screamed or shuddered when they heard the name spoken.
Albus Dumbledore was one of the few who dared refer to him as 'Voldemort', although he preferred to use the name 'Tom', using the former in conversation, and the latter when addressing Voldemort himself, showing his fearlessness. In ignoring the name Voldemort, Dumbledore disallowed him the intimidation he sought while appealing to what little remained of his former student deep within Voldemort. Dumbledore also insists on others to use the name 'Voldemort', rather than 'You-Know-Who', or such varieties, believing that fear in the name would only increase fear of the thing itself. Much later, Harry, despite never fearing Voldemort in name, would use the name 'Riddle' in their final confrontation, for the same reasons Dumbledore did. The few other known people who were fearlessly willing to use the name Voldemort aloud were Remus Lupin, Sirius Black and Merula Snyde. Voldemort would hate it when people dared call him by his forsaken name.
After the coup at the Ministry in 1997, the Taboo was placed on the name 'Voldemort'; speaking the name would summon Death Eaters, Ministry officials, or Snatchers via Apparition. This was used to find those who opposed Voldemort's rule, as only they would dare speak the name. This was how Harry, Ron and Hermione were found at Tottenham Court Road and before being brought to Malfoy Manor. Also, Kingsley Shacklebolt barely escaped Death Eaters when he spoke it.
After Voldemort's demise at the Battle of Hogwarts, it would appear that the wizarding world at large would no longer fear in speaking his name aloud, as Draco Malfoy was one of such people. This could be due to the growth of literature and research about his life and heritage, with one book titled Marvolo: The Truth. One reason why the author gave the book that title was to reveal to the Wizarding public the connection between 'Lord Voldemort' and his undignified grandfather Marvolo Gaunt, thereby depriving Voldemort of the climate of fear and mystery that he had spent much of his life creating around himself. It could also be that his death was confirmed by thousands of witnesses, unlike his first downfall that only an infant Harry ever witnessed.
The Gaunts Tom's family on his mother's side
Tom Riddle grew up in a Muggle orphanage, not knowing any members of his family. His mother, Merope Gaunt, died shortly after giving birth, never attempting to save herself through magical or other means. His father's feelings toward him are unknown, as he fled then-pregnant Merope after she stopped drugging him with a love potion, and didn't track down the whereabouts of their child thereafter. The two met face-to-face in 1943, when Riddle killed his father and paternal grandparents. Riddle was disgusted by his Muggle relatives, and took on the alias 'Lord Voldemort' partly out of a desire to be rid of his 'filthy Muggle father's name'. Tom Riddle Jnr viewed his father as abandoning his mother for being a witch. Whether this was due to a lack of information or Riddle's prejudice against Muggles is unknown.
Despite the maternal side of his family being direct descendants of the great Salazar Slytherin, Tom was unimpressed when he found his deranged uncle Morfin living in squalor at the Gaunt Shack, and was not above framing Morfin for murder and stealing his maternal grandfather's prized heirloom ring. Even as a child, he showed contempt for his mother, and for the weakness of mortality, when he assumed Merope must have been a Muggle if she had been unable to survive. Ironically, it is very possible that Voldemort's more sociopathic and violent tendencies throughout his life could be a result of the 'vein of instability' caused by centuries of inbreeding due to the Gaunts' narcissistic attitudes towards their Slytherin lineage.
Considering Voldemort's loathing towards his heritage and true name, coupled with the rather dysfunctional dynamics of the Gaunt and Riddle families, it raises questions about why Merope chose to name him after his father and maternal grandfather. One possibility is that Merope, even after the abuse she had suffered at the hands of her father and husband, still held enough affection for them to name her only son after them. Alternatively, as Merope was on her deathbed while giving birth to the younger Riddle, she was likely reflecting on her life. Considering her Gaunt childhood of abuse, poverty, and isolation, she likely had very few, if any, friends to socialise with before her marriage to the elder Tom Riddle, leaving Marvolo and Morfin as the only men in her life, and 'Tom' and 'Marvolo' as the few male names that she could think of.
The only pride Voldemort ever took on his family was that he inherited the blood of the famous Salazar Slytherin from his mother, which he consistently flaunted at every opportunity possible, proudly addressing himself as the 'Heir of Salazar Slytherin', while regarding Slytherin as his 'noble ancestor'.
Harry Potter, his mortal enemy and unintentional Horcrux
Harry Potter became Voldemort's mortal enemy after the Dark Lord heard part of a prophecy that foretold the birth of an individual destined to destroy him; two infants met the criteria, but for the simple reason that Harry was a half-blood like himself, Voldemort considered him more of a threat than Neville Longbottom. In targeting Harry, Voldemort unwittingly 'marked him as his equal', thus sowing the seeds of his own destruction. Because Harry's mother willingly sacrificed herself for her son, the curse backfired. Voldemort lost his physical body, and unintentionally transferred some of his powers and abilities to Harry, while a piece of his soul embedded itself in a scar on Harry's forehead, inadvertently making the boy a Horcrux.
Trelawney's prophecy stated that 'The Chosen One' would have powers the Dark Lord lacked. That power is love, and Dumbledore realised that it was Harry's abilities, combined with his capacity to love, that would empower him to defeat Voldemort. Unlike Harry, who was mentally, emotionally, and spiritually intact and whose friends supported him out of loyalty and love (platonic affection), Voldemort was psychologically, spiritually, and emotionally shredded, feeling only arrogance, hate, greed, and jealousy; and he controlled his followers through fear, intimidation and coercion. Harry was disturbed to notice many similarities between them — they were both orphans who thought of Hogwarts as their first real homes, and both physically resembled their fathers, and to some degree each other. However, Dumbledore insisted that they differed in one absolutely crucial way — Harry had the ability to love, while Voldemort did not.
While Harry found it difficult to fathom that something so simple as love is the more powerful force, he understood that, once again, it was also about choices: Voldemort's actions regarding Harry were based on the prophecy, but Harry would choose to fight Voldemort whether or not the prophecy had been made. That choice, and the ability to make that choice, was largely what gave Harry powers that Voldemort lacked and prevented Harry from falling victim to the Dark side. Some years earlier, Dumbledore had stressed to Harry that it is one's choices that makes a person what they truly are, just as it had with Harry's father, James, when he chose to overcome his youthful bad behaviour.
Voldemort possessing Harry
Voldemort became obsessed with Harry Potter after he failed to kill the one-year-old boy — livid that a helpless infant caused his downfall. He later sought revenge on Harry to prove that he, Voldemort, was the most feared and powerful wizard of all time. Voldemort's hatred and desire for revenge was strong enough that, when the Horcrux contained in his diary encountered him in the Chamber of Secrets in 1993, he indicated that even the desire to kill Muggle-borns in the name of Salazar Slytherin as his heir no longer mattered to him compared to trying to target Harry for several months since the start of the school year. Voldemort considered Harry weak in comparison to himself and he always discounted how love's power has aided Harry. But after possessing Harry's mind, Harry's overwhelming emotions for his friends and family were so overpowering and disturbing to Voldemort that they drove him out. As a result, he never attempted to possess Harry again.
Harry and Voldemort before their final duel
When the two faced off for the last time, Harry urged Voldemort to feel remorse — the only known means of repairing a fractured soul — but Voldemort reacted with disdain. Harry went on to inform Voldemort that despite wielding the Elder Wand, he was not its master; Draco Malfoy won the wand's allegiance by disarming Dumbledore in the Astronomy Tower, but Harry had disarmed Draco months later. Thus, Harry was the true master of the Elder Wand. In his fury, Voldemort made one last attempt at Harry's life, but the Elder Wand was loyal to Harry, and the Killing Curse once again backfired on Voldemort. Without his Horcruxes to sustain him, this time the curse finally and completely ended Voldemort's life. Voldemort and Harry were also related by blood, however distantly, through their shared descent from the Peverells (Voldemort through the Gaunts and Harry through the Potters). This made them distant cousins.
It is unknown how Voldemort felt about his daughter Delphini since he died while she was still a baby. However, in the alternative timeline created via a mistake caused by Scorpius and Albus, Voldemort had apparently put Delphini (known as the Augurey) in charge of the Ministry: Dolores Umbridge (Headmistress of Hogwarts in this timeline) constantly informs the Augurey with dispatches about everything that is going on in Hogwarts; the Augurey gives instructions to Draco Malfoy (Head of Magical Law Enforcement of the Ministry of Magic in this timeline), e.g. how to deal with incidents involving wizards killing Muggles and bribing the Muggle Prime Minister with gold in such cases. Some students in Hogwarts openly quote the Augurey's motto that 'the future is ours to make', indicating that the Augurey was probably a famous and respected force as well as an inspiring example in the wizarding world of this timeline.
It is therefore likely that had Voldemort lived, he would have considered her an exceptionally faithful servant, something like his right-hand minion or deputy, and given her more power than he usually allowed his Death Eaters. It's notable that in this alternative timeline Delphi has her own official symbol - the bird emblazoned in a fascistic manner - that is widely used in this world, just like the Dark Mark, the official symbol of Voldemort. In the office of Head of Magical Law Enforcement in the Ministry there are Augurey flags flying down with this symbol while there are flags with the Dark Mark in Hogwarts. None of the Death Eaters ever had their own individual symbols and none of them ever had individual titles or alias due to having just a collective name for their group, while Delphini was operating under her personal and unique alias 'the Augurey' in this timeline, instead of being known just as another top Death Eater.
It is not known why he wanted a child, as he did not feel a need for love and disliked the idea of becoming emotionally attached to anyone, and in addition desired immortality. However, he likely realised that his daughter could become a talented and useful servant as Bellatrix was. It is also likely that he wished to preserve the Slytherin bloodline, on account of Voldemort being the last remaining heir of Slytherin. He kept her birth a secret, most likely because it may have placed her in danger, since Voldemort was considered the most powerful and dangerous Dark wizard of the time.
Delphini was curious about her parents, and wanted to have the chance to know them. She went to great lengths to meet and save her father, even to the point of meddling with time to create a future where he lived, which shows she had some love for him. After she was defeated by her cousin Draco Malfoy, Hermione Granger, Harry Potter and Ron Weasley, she begged for death instead of having to face the fact that she failed her father.
It is rather ironic that Delphini held such strong affection and fascination for her father, a man who felt absolutely no love. The alternative timeline where Voldemort ruled shows that he would have considered Delphini (known as the Augurey in that universe) a faithful servant.
Bellatrix Lestrange, his best and most loyal servant
Bellatrix Lestrange was among Voldemort's most loyal and trusted Death Eaters. She was entrusted with one of his Horcruxes, even though she was kept unaware of what it really was, and stored it in her Gringotts vault. She was fanatically loyal to her master as, after his first defeat in 1981, she did not join many of her fellow Death Eaters in denying their association with him. Instead, she proudly declared that she remained his most loyal servant and that he would surely return. She considered Azkaban a place where she could wait for him, rather than a prison.
Her obsession extended to her being in love with and sexually attracted to him. On at least one occasion, during a meeting of his Death Eaters at Malfoy Manor, her face flushed and her eyes welled up with tears when he praised her.
He did seem to consider her of greater importance than most of his other servants. He may have had at least a superficial affection for her, as he would call her 'Bella' like other members of her family would. He seemed to be flattered by her unfaltering devotion as he praised her, along with her husband and brother-in-law during his rebirth and promised that she would be rewarded; Snape later mentions that despite this he was more impressed by Snape's many years of useful information than Bellatrix's devotion however. At the conclusion of the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, he grabbed her and Apparated away with her; she was the sole Death Eater who he bothered to help, though this may have been more due to her closer proximity rather than preferential treatment. When she was killed by Molly Weasley during the Battle of Hogwarts, he was furious, and intended to avenge her death when Harry intervened.
Although Bellatrix was married to one of Voldemort's other loyal Death Eaters, Rodolphus Lestrange, the union seemed to be nothing more than a business-like partnership. It was Voldemort to whom she spoke in a romantic manner. She was outraged by anyone showing him the slightest disrespect. When Harry Potter called him by his name in 1996, she became enraged, due to feeling that he was unworthy of speaking the name.
Unknown to nearly all, it would be revealed years later after their death that Bellatrix and Voldemort had in fact engaged in a sexual relationship, resulting in the birth of their daughter Delphini who, years later, threatened to upset the timeline to be with her father. As Voldemort believed that he could cheat death, through his Horcruxes, he probably did not feel a need to leave a child behind as an heir. It is highly likely that he used the relationship with Bellatrix as a way to reward her for her undying loyalty to him, and for her rather potent and notable successes as his most loyal lieutenant. However, a reward appears to be unlikely considering Bellatrix's failures at the Ministry.
Because of his egotistical and self-centred nature, he was likely to have been pleased by Bellatrix's obsessive love for him. Despite believing himself immortal, he may have considered the usefulness of Delphini via the idea of siring a lineage of lieutenants devoutly loyal to him through familial bonds while seeing them as extensions of his own power and authority, much like many kings and tyrants who procreated to expand and solidify their own power through blood ties. He may have also chosen Bellatrix as a mate due to her blood relations and thoroughly proven power as a witch, thus marking her as a potent genetic combination as well as an ideal fit for Voldemort who revelled in his own status and power. A mate of such fortitude and strength would certainly appeal to Voldemort's pathological need to expand his fame and reputation. Voldemort also may have seen Delphini as a way of extending the power of the Slytherin bloodline beyond himself so as to further showcase his as well as his family's might and to further terrorise his enemies with the idea of another Dark Lord ruling alongside him. Voldemort may also have been intellectually enthused or curious at the idea of a student with similar powers and potential as himself, highlighting his vanity and ego even further as he had had no living relatives whose powers he could compare his own to or to have learned from.
It is also possible that the conception of Delphini was unintentional as very little is known about her background.
Nagini coiled around her master Voldemort
Voldemort had a special relationship with Nagini, his pet snake who was also one of his Horcruxes. Nagini was the only living being that Voldemort seemed to genuinely care about; however, due to the fact that Nagini was one of his Horcruxes, he might have cared about the part of his soul inside her rather than Nagini herself. However, Albus Dumbledore speculated that Voldemort cared more about Nagini than any other living creature and that his affection for her had nothing to do with the part of his soul he'd placed inside her; in fact Dumbledore thought that it was because of his feelings for the snake (and that she underlines Voldemort's ancestry with Salazar Slytherin) that he made Nagini into a Horcrux in the first place. Voldemort often stroked her head, wore her around his neck, and even used endearments and loving words when he spoke to her. During one meeting he demanded the Death Eaters' silence immediately when he noticed that Nagini was becoming irritated by their jeers and yells.
Nagini never drew the wrath of her master, even when she failed to keep Harry Potter in Godric's Hollow, though Voldemort generally did not react well to failure. Nagini obeyed her master's every order, and the two were able to communicate with each other telepathically. Albus Dumbledore noted that Voldemort had an unusual amount of control over her, even for a Parselmouth. He often used her to dispose of his enemies such as Charity Burbage, and also threatened to feed Peter Pettigrew, Antonin Dolohov, and Thorfinn Rowle to her when they failed him.
In 1994, Peter Pettigrew milked the venom from Nagini's fangs, which he used in a potion that allowed Voldemort to regain a basic physical form. That same year, Voldemort made Nagini a Horcrux with the murder of Bertha Jorkins. Though he had often sent Nagini on personal missions, Voldemort kept her close to him after he discovered Harry was attempting to track down and destroy his Horcruxes. Nagini was beheaded by Neville Longbottom during the Battle of Hogwarts, and Voldemort felt rage and perhaps even grief at the loss of his snake. As Nagini was the last remaining Horcrux, her death allowed for Voldemort's ultimate defeat.
Albus Dumbledore, the one wizard Voldemort always feared
Tom Riddle met Albus Dumbledore at the age of eleven, when the Professor came to invite him to attend Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Although initially suspicious of Dumbledore, he was at least somewhat impressed by Dumbledore's demonstration of magic. Tom was pleased to discover that he was a wizard, as it confirmed the suspicions he long had about being 'special'. The boy disturbed Dumbledore, however, when he admitted to being able to hurt people who displeased him and being able to talk to snakes. Even as Tom became an extremely popular student among his peers and Professors at Hogwarts, Dumbledore remained wary of him, and kept a very close watch on him.
Riddle (then known as Voldemort) returned to Hogwarts years after graduating to request the Defence Against the Dark Arts position from Dumbledore, who had become the school's Headmaster. Suspecting that Voldemort's true intentions were far more sinister than he let on, Dumbledore refused him the position; the result of Dumbledore's refusal was not only that the position of DADA professor became "cursed", but it affirmed Dumbledore's complete refusal to bend to Voldemort's will.
Voldemort despised Dumbledore, not only due to the latter's continued opposition, but also because Dumbledore's belief in the triumphant power of love was something that both confused and disgusted Voldemort. Dumbledore was thought to be the only person Voldemort ever feared and one of the few people Voldemort was unable to intimidate, due to Dumbledore being the only wizard whose powers and skill could rival that of Voldemort's. Dumbledore persisted on referring to him as 'Voldemort' to others and addressing him as 'Tom' in conversation, a subtle but steadfast refusal to allow Voldemort to dictate the terms of their relationship, and a trait that would later be inherited by Harry Potter. Dumbledore led the efforts against Voldemort in the First Wizarding War; over many years, Dumbledore gathered crucial information about Voldemort's past and passed it on to Harry Potter, who would essentially take Dumbledore's place as leader of the opposition in the Second Wizarding War.
In 1996, Dumbledore and Voldemort met face to face in the Ministry of Magic during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, where Dumbledore addressed Voldemort as 'Tom' and said it was foolish of him to come to the Ministry. Voldemort initiated a fierce duel with Dumbledore, during which he tried to murder both Dumbledore and Harry, but was unsuccessful; Dumbledore managed to maintain the offensive in the duel, forcing Voldemort to possess Harry so Dumbledore would kill Harry out of a desire to kill him as well. This too was unsuccessful as Harry was able to exorcise the Dark Lord from his body and mind by focussing on his intense feelings of grief over Sirius' death. Cornelius Fudge arrived at the Ministry just in time to see Voldemort escape with Bellatrix Lestrange, and was finally forced to acknowledge the truth of Voldemort's return.
Following his failure to kill either Dumbledore or Harry at the ministry, Voldemort assigned Draco Malfoy to carry out Dumbledore's assassination. Dumbledore became aware of this plot, and addressed it by arranging his own death with Severus Snape. At the time of his death in 1997, Albus Dumbledore had fully equipped Harry Potter with the physical, mental and emotional tools he needed to defeat Voldemort once and for all in 1998. Later on, during his search for the Elder Wand, Voldemort broke into Dumbledore's tomb.
Both Voldemort and Dumbledore shared similar traits; they both wielded extraordinary power that made them among the most powerful wizards in history, although Dumbledore had proven to be, perhaps, his only superior, and understood love, which Voldemort was completely unable to do, both were half-blood, although Voldemort knew nothing about Hogwarts until he was 11. Both were recognised as two of the best wizards to go to Hogwarts and were both Prefects and Head Boy. Both created and led their own causes (the Order of the Phoenix and the Death Eaters). Both Dumbledore and Voldemort possessed the Elder Wand during their life and both also held trust in Severus Snape.
Barty Crouch Jnr, his loyal servant
Another of Voldemort's most loyal and trusted servants was Barty Crouch Jnr. Barty Crouch was imprisoned in Azkaban with Bellatrix Lestrange and two other Death Eaters. He escaped with the help of his father and dying mother, and the former kept him confined to the Crouch home under the Imperius Curse. When Voldemort learned, by way of torturing Bertha Jorkins, that there was a Death Eater at large who remained loyal to him, Voldemort and Peter Pettigrew overpowered the senior Barty Crouch and freed his son.
In contrast with his real father, Crouch saw Lord Voldemort as a father figure of sorts and, after being disowned by his own father and after his Azkaban year, was fanatically devoted to the Dark Lord. In fact, at that point Crouch was willing to sacrifice and give absolutely everything to serve Voldemort. He also believed that if he finished off Harry Potter, he would be welcomed back, closer to Voldemort than a real son. In essence, Barty's loyalty is only matched by fellow Death Eater Bellatrix Lestrange. However, Crouch's loyalty has led him to know many things about Lord Voldemort that even other loyal Death Eaters, such as Bellatrix, do not. Barty knows that Voldemort had a disappointing father, that he suffered the indignity of being named after that father, and that he had the great pleasure of killing said father to ensure the rise of the dark order.
These three common threads helped to fuel Barty's loyalty. This also implies that Barty is aware of Voldemort's blood status as a half-blood, but doesn't care about it, in contradiction to the Death Eaters' belief of pure-blood supremacy. It could very well be that Voldemort told Barty these similarities between the two, and used them as a way to get Barty to join him. Voldemort seems to have acknowledged Barty's worth, something his own father failed to do, referring to Barty as 'his most faithful servant'. However, for all of Voldemort's public claims, he never truly cared for Barty any more than as a useful servant who is as easily disposable as any other, as Voldemort never wanted a friend.
Barty Crouch Jnr helped Voldemort regain a physical body by capturing and imprisoning Alastor Moody, a retired Auror, who was about to accept Dumbledore's offer to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts at Hogwarts. Disguised as Moody, Barty Crouch entered Harry's name into the Goblet of Fire and helped ensure that he would win the Triwizard Tournament. By turning the Triwizard Cup into a Portkey, Crouch made sure Harry was transported to the Little Hangleton graveyard, where Peter Pettigrew used Harry's blood to concoct a potion that would allow Voldemort to be reborn. After Voldemort failed to kill Harry in the graveyard, Harry returned to Hogwarts, where Barty Crouch attempted to kill him personally, no longer pretending to be Alastor Moody. Harry was saved by Albus Dumbledore, Severus Snape and Minerva McGonagall, and Barty Crouch was given the Dementor's Kiss. It's unknown how Voldemort reacted when he learned Crouch's fate, though he possibly felt some disappointment due to the latter's loyalty and usefulness.
Severus Snape, his formerly loyal servant turned enemy and victim
Severus Snape became a Death Eater in the First Wizarding War. He was extremely loyal to Voldemort until he realised that the Dark Lord planned to murder Lily Evans. Snape appealed to Albus Dumbledore, becoming a spy in exchange for her protection. From that point on, Snape used Occlumency to prevent the Dark Lord from discovering his true allegiance.
After Peter Pettigrew broke the Fidelius Charm cast by the Potters, Lily died and Voldemort disappeared; however, while Snape was unable to save Lily herself, his love for her allowed her son, Harry Potter, to survive. It was because Snape asked the Dark Lord to spare her life that Voldemort gave Lily the option to flee, thus making her death a willing sacrifice. Following the death of the Potters, Snape's loyalty did not waver, and he swore to protect Harry from the Dark Lord, honouring Lily's sacrifice.
When Voldemort was reborn and called his Death Eaters to him, Snape did not appear until two hours later. The Dark Lord was suspicious, and feared that Snape had abandoned his service. On Dumbledore's orders, Severus claimed that his delayed return had secured the Headmaster's continued trust. The Dark Lord questioned Snape extensively, and found all his answers satisfactory; Snape was then welcomed back to the inner circle.
Voldemort's trust in Snape was further cemented when the latter murdered Albus Dumbledore; the Dark Lord did not know that Dumbledore had previously arranged the assassination with Snape. Snape became the Dark Lord's most trusted advisor and was given the position of Hogwarts Headmaster after the Fall of the Ministry of Magic. Unbeknownst to Voldemort, Snape continued to undermine him as much as possible, following Dumbledore's instructions.
Voldemort coldly orders Nagini to kill Snape
When Minerva McGonagall began to coordinate the defences of Hogwarts Castle for the impending battle against Voldemort, Snape fled, and was summoned to the Shrieking Shack by his Master soon afterwards. Snape saw that the Dark Lord had cast special protection around Nagini, and attempted to leave the Shack to give Harry a message from Dumbledore (as Dumbledore had instructed Snape that, once Voldemort seemed to fear for the serpent's life, he was to tell Harry that Harry himself was Voldemort's seventh Horcrux, and therefore had to die) on the pretence that he would find Harry and ensure that he was killed by no hand other than Voldemort's own. Dismissing Snape's concerns, Voldemort noted that, since Albus Dumbledore's murder, Snape had become the true master of the Elder Wand. Voldemort ordered Nagini to kill Snape, and although he claimed he regretted the necessity of this action, he showed neither sadness nor concern for the loss of Snape's life. Harry, who had witnessed the scene and entered the room upon Voldemort's departure, approached Snape, who gave him several memories that both revealed his true allegiance and passed on Dumbledore's message. Snape's last words reflected his truest motives: he instructed Harry to look at him, so that he would die looking into the eyes Harry inherited from Lily Evans.
In his final duel against Voldemort, Harry revealed that Snape had been loyal to Dumbledore since Voldemort had targeted the Potters. Rather than express shock or betrayal, Voldemort reacted with indifference to these revelations, as he believed that he was now the master of the Elder Wand. Voldemort also spurned Harry's explanations that killing Snape did not make him (Voldemort) the master of the Elder Wand, and that Draco Malfoy held that position. This mistake soon ended up costing Voldemort his life, thus ensuring that Snape's sacrifice was not in vain.
One of the possible reasons why Voldemort placed so much trust in Snape was due to their rather similar backgrounds. Both men were the only children of Muggle fathers and pure-blood mothers. Both men's fathers had nothing but hatred for their sons and wives—Voldemort's father had abandoned his wife when she was pregnant with their son, while Snape's father was abusive towards his wife Eileen and their young son. Both Riddle and Snape claimed greater identification with their maternal lineage than their paternal ancestry—the Gaunts and Prince family, respectively. Both men grew up in poverty—Voldemort grew up in an orphanage, while Snape lived in Spinner's End. In addition, both Riddle and Snape were sorted into Slytherin, and were known for their intelligence. Both men had a passion for the Dark Arts and blood purity in their childhoods, and bestowed grandiose titles onto themselves (Riddle was known as Lord Voldemort, while Snape adopted the name the Half-Blood Prince). Both saw Hogwarts as sort of a real home as opposed to their default home. Voldemort may have seen him as a trusted Death Eater who shared the same hatred for his father as he had for his own. The only thing that differs between Voldemort and Snape's relationships with their fathers is murder; Voldemort had murdered his own father while Snape did not murder his.
However, there were differences between Snape and Voldemort. Snape had a secret love for Lily Evans for all his life, which motivated him to defect from the Death Eaters and protect her son, Harry Potter, after her death at Voldemort's hands. Voldemort, on the other hand, disregarded love as a weakness that was beyond his comprehension, and had an allegiance to only himself. This had coincidentally led to his own undoing. Another difference was that while Voldemort grew up completely unaware of the wizarding world until he was eleven, Snape had apparently already known by the time he was nine (likely due to the fact that his mother was a witch and, unlike Voldemort's mother, was actually present in her son's childhood).
Peter Pettigrew, his reluctant servant
Peter Pettigrew, Lord Voldemort's weakest and most cowardly servant, became a Death Eater during Voldemort's first rise to domination, and betrayed James and Lily Potter to Voldemort in order to save his own life. After Voldemort's first defeat, Pettigrew made no attempt to find his master; he transformed into a rat, and passed into the ownership of Percy Weasley. Voldemort accepted Pettigrew as a helpful servant, though made it clear he thought little of his cowardice and was fully aware that Pettigrew came to him for lack of any other options.
In 1993, Sirius Black escaped from Azkaban, where he had been detained after Pettigrew framed him for his own crimes, and Black followed Pettigrew to Hogwarts. By chance, after Harry Potter convinced Black not to murder Pettigrew on the spot, he managed to transform back into a rat, and escaped. With nowhere else to go, Pettigrew fled to Albania to seek protection from Black in the service of Lord Voldemort. Pettigrew proved his usefulness by sending Voldemort Bertha Jorkins, who told them where to find Bartemius Crouch Jnr. Pettigrew later played a key role in Voldemort's rebirth by sacrificing his hand to the potion that allowed Voldemort to acquire a new body. Despite all this, Voldemort still reviled Pettigrew for his obvious cowardice and past loyalty issues, and spoke in utter contempt for his servant. During meetings and missions, Wormtail was assigned to the most menial of tasks, such as jailer or dogsbody to Severus Snape, highlighting how unimportant he was in the organisation. Despite this, he forced Garrick Ollivander to construct a new wand for Pettigrew, possibly as a further reward for his service.
In 1998, Pettigrew was killed by the silver hand Voldemort had given him when he hesitated during an attempt to strangle Harry Potter, a fate likely similar to whatever punishment Pettigrew would've received from Voldemort himself for this.
The Malfoy family, his former servants
Voldemort entrusted Lucius Malfoy with a Horcrux: his diary, which made possible the reopening of the Chamber of Secrets. The Dark Lord was enraged to hear, years later, that the diary had been carelessly handed to Ginny Weasley. Lucius appeared not to have known that the object concealed a part of his master's soul, as in all likelihood, Voldemort had only told him that the object was enchanted to reopen the Chamber.
Lucius pretended to have been under the Imperius Curse after the Dark Lord's first downfall, and maintained a position of influence within the Ministry of Magic until the Second Wizarding War began. When Voldemort was reborn, he welcomed Lucius into his inner circle, though he reprimanded Malfoy for running from the Dark Mark conjured at the Quidditch World Cup.
Lucius quickly began to lose favour, however, after Voldemort heard about the diary's destruction. When the Death Eaters under his command lost the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and failed to retrieve the Prophecy, the Dark Lord was extremely displeased; Lucius was sent to prison after the battle and, as punishment for the elder Malfoy's failure, Voldemort gave his son Draco Malfoy the nearly impossible task of murdering Albus Dumbledore, with the expectation that he, too, would fail, and then be punished accordingly by the Dark Lord. Though Draco more or less succeeded in fulfilling his mission, Voldemort continued to distrust the Malfoys' loyalty. He dwelt at Malfoy Manor for a while, and suspected that the family resented him for doing so. During his stay at the Manor, Voldemort used Draco as a pawn, forcing him to torture other Death Eaters, which effectively humiliated the Malfoy pride.
The following year, after Harry Potter managed to escape from the Manor, Voldemort tortured Lucius and began to treat him with complete disdain. Malfoy then focussed on rescuing his son from Hogwarts during the Battle of Hogwarts, fearing only for Draco's life and seemed to abandon all loyalty to the Death Eaters' cause. In addition, Draco's defeat at the hands of Harry won the latter the allegiance of the Elder Wand. Voldemort snubbed Lucius' concerns for Draco and jeered that perhaps the teenager had chosen to ally himself with Harry Potter when he did not leave the school with the other Slytherins.
After Voldemort succeeded in casting the Killing Curse on Harry, Narcissa Malfoy was ordered to confirm the death. Harry was alive, however, and Narcissa, concerned for her son, demanded news of Draco from Harry and, upon learning that Draco was alive and well, lied to the Dark Lord, stating that Harry was dead. She knew that she and Lucius would only be able to return to Hogwarts and reunite with their son if they were part of a victory party. These events allowed Harry to confront Voldemort for the last time. During their final duel, Harry informed Voldemort of Draco's gaining of the Elder Wand's allegiance, which Harry himself had earned after his (Harry's) defeat of Draco a few months earlier. In response, Voldemort stated that these turn of events '[made] no difference' between them and threatened that he would 'attend to (i.e., kill)' Draco after killing Harry, likely as punishment not only for Draco's unintentional interference in Voldemort's plans, but also for Narcissa's deception and Lucius' failures. Fortunately for the Malfoys, this was not to be, as the Dark Lord was killed by a rebounding Killing Curse. Narcissa's instrumental intervention ensured that the Malfoys were not convicted for their crimes.
By 2020, Draco had become so disillusioned from the Death Eater cause due to his experiences with Voldemort that he (Draco) helped the Trio defeat Voldemort's daughter Delphini in her plan to save Voldemort from his first downfall back in 1981. What was rather remarkable about Draco's involvement in this escapade was that Delphini was the illegitimate daughter of Draco's aunt Bellatrix, and therefore Draco's cousin. This defiance of Delphini and Voldemort demonstrated that Draco wanted so little to do with his erstwhile master that even having the Dark Lord's daughter being a blood relative was a repugnant notion to him. Draco also might have been motivated by a desire to redeem himself from his Death Eater past. During this period in his life, Draco also began referring to Voldemort by his name rather than the 'Dark Lord' as he did in his youth, which might have been motivated by his self-redemption.
Death Eaters, his devoted servants
Those called Death Eaters were a group of Dark wizards and witches that followed Voldemort, fighting as the upper echelon of his army during both the First and Second Wizarding Wars. However, Voldemort did not take kindly to failure or disloyalty from his servants, and he made sure those who had believed him dead and did not try to find him following his disappearance paid the price upon his return. When he summoned his Death Eaters to the Little Hangleton graveyard, after he regained his body, he tortured and questioned them before forgiving and allowing them back into his service.
Despite many of the Death Eaters claiming to be close to Voldemort, and Voldemort often referring to them as his 'friends' and his 'true family', the Dark Lord saw them as little more than dispensable servants. The few Death Eaters in whom Voldemort appeared to place any amount of genuine trust were Severus Snape, Lucius Malfoy, Peter Pettigrew, Barty Crouch Jnr, Bellatrix, Rodolphus and Rabastan Lestrange though, as time passed, he lost trust in them due to constant failures or wavering trust.
Some of Lord Voldemort's first Death Eaters were Avery Snr, Lestrange, Mulciber Snr, Nott, Rosier and Antonin Dolohov. Others were Walden Macnair, Corban Yaxley, Augustus Rookwood, Selwyn, Travers, Thorfinn Rowle, Alecto and Amycus Carrow, Gibbon, Crabbe, Goyle, Jugson, Avery Jnr, Mulciber Jnr, Igor Karkaroff, Evan Rosier and Wilkes.
Like Voldemort himself, many were not above denying any involvement in actions that could get them into trouble with the legal authorities of the magical community. Many were willing to switch their loyalties to avoid danger or punishment, rather than steadfastly supporting their presented views.
After Voldemort's first downfall: Avery, Jnr claimed to have been under the Imperius Curse and avoided Azkaban but also didn't attempt to find his master. Voldemort never hesitated to punish Avery for his incompetence or simply for annoying him. The Carrow siblings Amycus and Alecto did not attempt to find him. Given Amycus' (at the very least) cowardly nature, it is likely that at the very least he would have done all he could to avoid Azkaban. Other Death Eaters who didn't try to find him were Crabbe, Goyle, and Nott, though Nott claimed to be Voldemort's most faithful servant only to be silenced by his master.
Other individuals who showed disloyalty were Igor Karkaroff who betrayed many of his former comrades to the Ministry in return for his freedom from Azkaban, and went on to become Headmaster of Durmstrang Institute. Though he was still a pure-blood supremacist and did not accept Muggle-borns into his school, Karkaroff fled following Voldemort's return and was consequently killed by Death Eaters in 1996. Peter Pettigrew joined Voldemort out of cowardice, but did not attempt to search for him following his first downfall, so he hid from his fellow Death Eaters in the form of the Weasley family pet rat Scabbers and only rejoined him when he was flushed out by Sirius Black who he framed for his own crimes. Walden Macnair claimed to have been under the Imperius Curse to avoid Azkaban and did not attempt to find Voldemort after his first downfall.
Corban Yaxley managed to avoid Azkaban and did not attempt to find Voldemort after his downfall, believing him finished. Despite this he was still given a lot of responsibility such as the task of recruiting Horace Slughorn, leading the Death Eater controlled Ministry of Magic, and escorting Harry Potter to his death.
On the other hand, the Lestrange family remained loyal to Voldemort, with Rabastan Lestrange, his brother Rodolphus Lestrange and sister-in-law to the former/wife to the latter Bellatrix Lestrange (née Black) going to Azkaban instead of publicly forsaking him. Voldemort greatly appreciated their loyalty and promised to honour them beyond the dreams of wizards. It's unknown how Rodolphus felt about his wife having feelings for Voldemort, though as he himself was highly devoted to his master, he may have supported it.
The Mulciber family served him faithfully with both the Snr and the Jnr Mulciber fighting for him and the younger even going to Azkaban for him. The Rosier family served him faithfully, with Rosier being among his first Death Eaters and Evan Rosier dying for him during the First War.
Other individuals who served him faithfully were Antonin Dolohov, Augustus Rookwood, Travers and Wilkes. The first three went to Azkaban for him while the last was killed by Aurors during the First War. Rookwood was instrumental in Voldemort's plan to retrieve the prophecy, and was spared Voldemort's wrath when delivering him bad news (Avery was tortured instead). While Dolohov was one of the more devoted Death Eaters, this did not save him from being brutally tortured when he, along with Rowle, summoned Voldemort before capturing Harry.
Both Regulus Black II and Severus Snape defected after becoming disillusioned with the Death Eater lifestyle. The later also defected to protect Lily Evans whose husband James Potter I and son Harry Potter were targeted by Lord Voldemort for death, whereas the former defected for the welfare of Kreacher.
Gibbon, Jugson, Selwyn, and Thorfinn Rowle were also amongst those who served Lord Voldemort. Whether they had forsaken him or not is unknown.
Although Fenrir Greyback was not a true Death Eater, Voldemort offered him the privilege to wear their robes in exchange for his services. While Voldemort saw Greyback as a valuable asset in threatening to set him loose onto people who refused to cooperate, he did not hold the werewolf in the same regard as genuine Death Eaters, and did not brand him with the Dark Mark. Fenrir joined up with Voldemort not for ideologies, but for greater access to victims of werewolfry infection, and did not attempt to find Voldemort after his first downfall. Regardless, the werewolf did resent the fact that he was not being treated with the same level of respect as Voldemort's inner circle (such as not having the Mark), many of whom regarded him with disgust and neglect. Indeed, while it is clear that Voldemort only treated all of his subordinates as tools for his bidding, his low respect for Fenrir made it even more apparent.
While as a student at Hogwarts, Tom Riddle was a polite and intelligent young man who charmed almost all the staff members of Hogwarts. Headmaster Armando Dippet, in particular, was fond of Riddle. Dippet did not allow Riddle to remain in Hogwarts during the summer holidays due to the Chamber of Secrets opening at the time (unaware that Riddle was the one who opened it), but would have made special arrangements if the situation was safer. When Tom framed Rubeus Hagrid for the crime, Armando accepted the model student's actions as honest heroism without questioning him, and merited him a Special Award for Services to the School. When Riddle was about to finish his education, he attempted to request Professor Dippet to remain at Hogwarts as the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, to which Dippet refused on account that the newly graduated was too inexperienced, but invited him to reapply in a few years if he remain interested.
Horace Slughorn, his former Head of House and one of those who admired him
Professor Horace Slughorn was the Potions master during Tom Riddle's years at Hogwarts. Tom Riddle was a member of the Slug Club, a 'collection' of Slughorn's favourite students, including students who were well connected, and those who proved to be talented and appeared to have potential for great success. At some point during Tom Riddle's time at Hogwarts, he asked Slughorn about Horcruxes. Slughorn initially baulked, but under the influence of Riddle's charm, convinced himself that Tom was asking for 'purely academic' reasons and told him what tearing one's soul would basically entail. Most significantly, Tom asked if it was possible to make more than one Horcrux; while the question shocked and horrified Slughorn, he didn't deny that it was possible.
With the information he received from Slughorn, Tom Riddle affirmed his decision to create six Horcruxes; ultimately, this would tear his soul into a total of seven separate pieces—seven being the 'most powerfully magical number'—and allow him to effectively achieve some degree of immortality. Ashamed of having so badly misjudged Tom Riddle, and for the part he played in providing Riddle with such destructive information, Slughorn modified his own memory.
In 1996, Slughorn left retirement and returned to Hogwarts to replace Severus Snape as Potions master. Albus Dumbledore gave Harry Potter the task of being 'collected' by Slughorn and retrieving the original version of the memory. Harry managed to get the memory from Slughorn in 1997, with the help of Felix Felicis, copious amounts of mead, and Slughorn's fondness for Harry's mother, who had been another of Slughorn's favourites. The memory confirmed suspicions Dumbledore had about the steps Voldemort had taken to become immortal, which proved to be of vital importance in Voldemort's ultimate defeat.
During the Battle of Hogwarts, Slughorn, who initially appeared to flee the school, brought reinforcements from Hogsmeade to join the fight against the Death Eaters, and later duelled directly against Voldemort with Minerva McGonagall and Kingsley Shacklebolt.
Ginny in her first year with Tom  Riddle's diary
Although Voldemort had lost his physical body, he managed to approach Ginny Weasley, a first year Gryffindor girl and younger sister of Ron Weasley who had a huge crush on Harry Potter, through one of his Horcruxes: his diary. Tom Riddle's soul communicated with Ginny through his diary, sympathising with her problems and giving her advice, which made her emotionally vulnerable to Riddle's influence. As this fragment of his soul was preserved as his sixteen year old self, prior to the later disfigurements, Tom Riddle was able to use his earlier good looks to make girls swoon as he had done decades earlier, in this case making an insecure girl feel valued that a tall, dark and handsome man took an interest in her problems.
Eventually, Riddle was able to possess Ginny, use her to open the Chamber of Secrets and free the Serpent of Slytherin to petrify several Muggle-born students (including Hermione Granger). When Ginny figured out what she had been doing, despite having no memory of what happened during the times she was possessed, she attempted to flush the diary down a toilet; however, as the diary was a Horcrux, it remained undamaged and later ended up in the hands of Harry Potter himself.
A possessed Ginny writing a message on the wall
Ginny, worried the Diary would reveal to Harry things she'd written about her feelings for him, stole the diary back. Riddle possessed Ginny one last time and had her enter the Chamber of Secrets, with every intention of killing her and using her life to restore his own. Harry, however, as a Parselmouth, was able to enter the Chamber, rescue Ginny, and slay the Basilisk with the Sword of Gryffindor. He then used one of the Basilisk's fangs to stab the Diary, effectively making it the first of Voldemort's Horcruxes to be destroyed.
Despite being outwardly sympathetic and understanding, Riddle actually felt great contempt for Ginny, viewing her as 'silly' and describing her as 'stupid little Ginny'. He considered her 'boring' at first, but thought that her diary entries became 'far more interesting' after he started possessing her as he apparently found her confusion amusing. Ginny's retrieval of the diary angered Riddle as he had hoped to learn more about Harry Potter. When Voldemort's lieutenant, Bellatrix, was killed by Ginny's mother Molly Weasley in retaliation for nearly killing Ginny, Voldemort nearly turned his wand on both mother and daughter. However, this gave Harry the incentive to reveal his being still-alive. Ginny and her surviving relatives all saw Harry defeat Voldemort shortly thereafter. It was unknown to Voldemort that Ginny had won Harry's heart in her fifth year, but he might have suspected it. In addition, Ginny would marry Harry some point after Voldemort's death, making her the Dark Lord's distant cousin-in-law (albeit while Voldemort was dead).
Rubeus Hagrid, his determined enemy
Rubeus Hagrid and Tom Riddle were both students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1940s, with Hagrid being three years his junior. In 1943, Riddle opened the Chamber of Secrets, unleashing a Basilisk on the school's Muggle-born students. Most of the students who were attacked ended up petrified, but when the Basilisk finally succeeded in killing one of them, Hogwarts became in danger of closing—a consequence Riddle hadn't foreseen, which would mean him having to return indefinitely to Wool's Orphanage. Upon realising the school might not have to close if the perpetrator were caught, Riddle stopped attacking students with the Basilisk, closed the Chamber of Secrets, and framed Hagrid, who was known for his love of dangerous Creatures and at the time was raising Aragog, a young Acromantula, for the crime.
Hagrid managed to protect Aragog and even threw Riddle to the ground when he tried to curse him, making Hagrid the only person to challenge Riddle while he was a student. Despite this, Hagrid was expelled from Hogwarts, and the school was allowed to remain open. Believing in Hagrid's innocence, however, Professor Albus Dumbledore convinced Headmaster Armando Dippet to allow Hagrid to stay on at Hogwarts as Gamekeeper.
Tom Riddle never felt remorse for framing Hagrid and ruining his life. As Riddle went on to become Voldemort, Hagrid joined the Order of the Phoenix and fought against Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters in the First Wizarding War. In 1981, Hagrid was devastated when Voldemort murdered his friends James and Lily Potter, but shared in the relief of the rest of the Wizarding world when Voldemort lost his powers and disappeared after failing to kill young Harry Potter. Although many believed that Voldemort was dead, Hagrid, agreeing with Dumbledore, believed that he would one day return to power. Along with the vast majority of the Wizarding community, Hagrid refused to say Voldemort's name, generally referring to him as 'You-know-who' although he once reluctantly said Voldemort's name when explaining his background to Harry. When Voldemort was searching for the Philosopher's Stone, he took advantage of Hagrid's love and knowledge of magical creatures and through Quirinus Quirrell, gathered the secret of subduing Fluffy through music from a drunken Hagrid, who was remorseful afterwards. Since Voldemort had a certain respect for Hogwarts professors, it is not known if that included Hagrid, who taught Care of Magical Creatures. This is unlikely considering Hagrid's half-giant status.
In 1995, after his resurrection, Voldemort dispatched his Death Eaters to convince the giants to join their side, while Dumbledore had sent Hagrid and Olympe Maxime to do the same. While Hagrid and Maxime were on good terms with the Gurg, Karkus, the Death Eaters supported the giant Golgomath in an uprising that resulted in Golgomath beheading Karkus and taking over the giant colony. The giants then attacked Hagrid and Maxime, who were forced to retreat.
In 1998, Hagrid fought in the Battle of Hogwarts and was captured by the Death Eaters. After Harry sacrificed himself to be killed, Voldemort ordered a grieving Hagrid to carry his friend's 'dead' body in his arms, where it would be clearly visible to Harry's supporters. When Harry finally defeated the Dark Lord, Hagrid was amongst the first few who were able to congratulate him on his triumph.
Quirinus Quirrell, his loyal servant
Quirinus Quirrell encountered Lord Voldemort's disembodied soul fragment in the Black Forest of Albania, during his world travels. Originally naively trying to capture the Dark Lord's remains, Quirrell overestimated himself thinking he could subjugate Voldemort and learn powerful magic from him. With promises of wealth, domination and possibly immortality, Voldemort convinced Quirrell to become his faithful servant, and even to share his body. Quirrell followed orders with a tint of fear, and at times tried, feebly and futilely, to resist the possession.
On Voldemort's orders, Quirrell returned to London in 1991 and broke into Vault 713 at Gringotts Wizarding Bank to procure the Philosopher's Stone, only to find that it had been emptied earlier that day and the Stone transferred to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry by Rubeus Hagrid.
Quirrell took the position of Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts at Hogwarts, with the aim of tracking down the Stone. When he and Voldemort realised Harry Potter was starting at Hogwarts that same year, Quirrell attempted to kill Harry, but was prevented from doing so first by Severus Snape, then, unwittingly, by Hermione Granger.
Quirrell once again turned his attention to finding the Philosopher's Stone, and overcame several enchanted obstacles to travel through the Philosopher's Stone Chambers. Harry followed Quirrell through the Chambers, believing he was actually following Severus Snape, and eventually found Quirrell attempting to retrieve the Stone from the Mirror of Erised in the final chamber. Voldemort ordered Quirrell to use Harry to get the stone, and when the Stone appeared in Harry's pocket, Harry attempted to conceal the fact by lying about what he saw in the Mirror. Voldemort, seeing through Harry's lie, offered Harry power and glory, and even the possibility of seeing his parents again, in exchange for joining him and handing over the stone. Upon Harry's refusal, Voldemort ordered Quirrell to take the Stone by force, but found that Quirrell was unable to touch the boy without enduring excruciating pain as a result of the protection afforded to Harry by his mother's loving sacrifice. To escape the pain, Voldemort separated his soul from Quirrell's body and fled, leaving Quirrell to die; Dumbledore noted that this was an act of Voldemort's mercilessness on his subordinates as much as towards his enemies.
Three years after abandoning Quirrell to his demise, Voldemort expressed to his Death Eaters that he saw Quirrell as a foolish and gullible man whose only value was his position at Hogwarts.
Tom Riddle grew up at the Muggle orphanage where his mother brought him shortly before her death in 1926.
Tom's relationship with the other residents of the orphanage was strained, to say the least. Some of the orphanage's staff, such as Mrs Cole, believed that his mother had originated from a circus due to his middle name. Tom was never given sufficient attention from the staff due to his independent nature nurtured by a lack of parental love, as he rarely cried as an infant, and his peculiar nature distanced him from the others. When Albus Dumbledore, then professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, arrived at the orphanage to invite Tom to attend Hogwarts, Tom initially believed that Mrs Cole, the orphanage's matron, had called Dumbledore to take him to an asylum; Tom defensively insulted Cole for the one being insane and should be sent to an asylum instead.
Dumbledore discovered that Tom had been bullying the other children, namely Amy Benson and Dennis Bishop, and that he had a habit of keeping trophies to signify the terror he was able to cause. He knew he was different from the other children; he was intelligent and far more powerful than his peers, and had no issue with punishing those who did not do as he told them. When Dumbledore assured him that he wasn't from an asylum, and that Tom was, in fact, a wizard, Riddle was unusually quick to believe him, having always considered himself 'special'.
Riddle hated the orphanage, which was a reminder of the poor and common start to his life; ultimately, he thought of Hogwarts as his first and real home. He would dread returning to the facility during the summer holidays, even requesting then-Headmaster Dippet to let him remain in school instead. Upon graduating, Riddle departed from the orphanage for good, distancing himself from it by immersing in the path of dark magic, and refused to use it as a hiding place for one of his Horcruxes.
Hepzibah Smith, one of his many murder victims
Tom Riddle first met Hepzibah Smith when he worked at Borgin and Burkes. As a polite, handsome, and clever young man with a great capacity to charm and a powerful gift of persuasion, he became friendly with Hepzibah, flattering her and making her feel pretty. He convinced her to show him two of her greatest treasures—Salazar Slytherin's Locket and Helga Hufflepuff's Cup—which he planned to steal and turn into Horcruxes. He killed Hepzibah two days later by mixing a lethal and little-known poison into her cocoa, and took the two artefacts.
He was never suspected in her murder, as he framed Smith's house-elf, Hokey, by modifying the elf's memory. Prior to her death, Hepzibah realised too late of Tom's greed for the treasures, which led her affections to falter somewhat. Riddle was remorseless for his role in Smith's death, and even used it to turn the Cup into a Horcrux.
Gellert Grindelwald
It is unknown if Voldemort and Grindelwald had ever met each other prior to 1998. It is unknown what Voldemort's personal views on Grindelwald's atrocities towards Muggles were or his attempted revolution to subjugate them though it is likely he did not care and took no inspiration from Grindelwald for his own attempted conquests later on. Despite Grindelwald's status as one of the most powerful dark wizards to have ever existed, inferior only to Voldemort himself, he seemed to have no praise or respect for the elder dark wizard and treated him as merely another person to interrogate in his search for the Elder Wand.
Grindelwald speaking to Voldemort in Nurmengard, seconds before his death
By the time Voldemort visited Grindelwald in his Nurmengard prison in 1998, Grindelwald seemed to know all about him, and claimed that he knew that Voldemort would one day visit him to seek out the Elder Wand. Despite being trapped and completely defenceless against one of the few wizards more powerful than himself, Grindelwald showed no fear towards the Dark Lord, and he laughed, scornfully challenging Voldemort to kill him, using the younger wizard's chosen name in contempt of his great power, much to the latter's fury.
Grindelwald refused to tell Voldemort the Elder Wand's location and taunted him by telling him that he would never be able to master the wand. Furious at his inability to gain information from the former master of the Elder Wand, Voldemort's fury eventually broke, and he murdered Grindelwald with the Killing Curse. 
Ultimately, Grindelwald's prediction of Voldemort never fully mastering the Elder Wand would become reality, and would cause Voldemort's own demise during his final duel with Harry Potter.
Order of the Phoenix, his enemies
The Order of the Phoenix was a secret organisation founded and led by Albus Dumbledore to oppose Voldemort and his Death Eaters.
Though it was unknown to Voldemort till shortly before his defeat, Severus Snape was a member of the Order who had defected from the Death Eaters and worked for Dumbledore as a spy shortly after Voldemort began hunting Lily Potter.
James and Lily Potter were members of the Order who became prime targets for Voldemort during the First Wizarding War, after Voldemort heard of a prophecy foretelling of a child destined to destroy him. This fit the description of their young son, Harry. On 31 October 1981, Voldemort found the Potters after the Fidelius Charm they had cast was broken by Peter Pettigrew. Voldemort killed an unarmed James mercilessly first and ordered Lily to stand aside (since Severus Snape had requested him to spare her), so he could kill Harry. When Lily refused to stand aside, Voldemort killed her as well, making her murder a sacrifice that caused the Killing Curse Voldemort aimed at Harry to backfire; Voldemort lost his body and fled to Albania.
Shortly after Voldemort lost his powers in 1981, the Longbottom family suffered at the hands of Bellatrix Lestrange, her husband Rodolphus, her brother-in-law Rabastan, and Barty Crouch Jnr, who tortured Alice and Frank Longbottom, new parents to Neville Longbottom, to the point of insanity. They became permanent residents of St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, and Neville was left to be raised by his grandmother, Augusta Longbottom. During the Battle of Hogwarts in 1998, Neville openly defied Voldemort and was tortured. However, he survived, and destroyed Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux when he beheaded Nagini using the Sword of Gryffindor.
Alastor 'Mad-Eye' Moody was a highly skilled Auror and active member of the Order who fought against Voldemort during the First Wizarding War. After Voldemort's first downfall in 1981, Moody was responsible for rounding up a number of Death Eaters, such as Igor Karkaroff, and killing several others, like Evan Rosier. In 1994, Voldemort ordered Barty Crouch Jnr to kidnap Moody and imprison him in his own trunk. For the next nine months, Crouch used Moody's hair to brew the Polyjuice Potion that would allow him to take Moody's place as temporary professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. In 1995, Crouch used his position at Hogwarts to make sure Harry Potter was transported to the Little Hangleton graveyard, where Peter Pettigrew used Harry's blood in a potion that allowed Voldemort to be restored to his body.
When Voldemort failed to kill Harry in the graveyard and Harry returned to Hogwarts, Barty Crouch Jnr attempted to murder him personally. Dumbledore, Minerva McGonagall, and Severus Snape rescued Harry, after which Crouch was exposed, and Moody was freed. After Dumbledore's death in 1997, Moody took charge of the Order of the Phoenix, until he was murdered by Voldemort during the Battle of the Seven Potters. Notably Voldemort seemed to acknowledge Moody's skills as a wizard as he targeted him personally as the most likely person to be guarding the real Harry.
Nearly all of the Weasley family were active within the Order of the Phoenix. They fought against Voldemort during both the First and Second Wizarding wars. They lost family members such as Fabian and Gideon Prewett, brothers of Molly Weasley, and Fred Weasley, who was killed in the Battle of Hogwarts. Voldemort had previously tried to manipulate Ginny Weasley in 1992, in an attempt to return to physical form, through one of his Horcruxes. Voldemort was furious when Molly defeated Bellatrix, and would have killed her, had Harry not intervened. Most of the Weasley family watched the final duel between Voldemort and Harry, and were witnesses to Voldemort's death.
Dorcas Meadowes, Caradoc Dearborn, the Bones family, the McKinnon family, Benjy Fenwick and Emmeline Vance were all Order members killed either by Voldemort himself or by his Death Eaters during the First and Second Wizarding Wars.
Voldemort as a LEGO minifigure (pictured here with Nagini)
Tom Riddle as a LEGO mini-figure
Lord Voldemort as a LEGO mini-figure
Tom Riddle as a LEGO mini-figure (2020 edition)
Voldemort in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Voldemort in LEGO Dimensions
Voldemort (with Nagini) as a POP! Vinyl
Voldemort (old) as a POP! Vinyl
Voldemort (as Tom Riddle) as a POP! Vinyl
Richard Bremmer (right) going through makeup for the scene where Voldemort's face is revealed
Christian Coulson as Tom Riddle
Ralph Fiennes as Voldemort on set
Dumbledore vs Voldemort in the Ministry's atrium
Duel in the Graveyard
Voldemort casts his final spell in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Voldemort's Death—never used in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Voldemort disintegrating into ashes in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Final duel between Voldemort and Harry Potter in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
A promotional poster of Lord Voldemort and Nagini from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Welcome to the Wizarding World of Harry Potter!
Hogwarts Legacy is a new immersive open-world action roleplaying game set in the wizarding world. Experience Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1890s as a student who holds the key to an ancient secret that threatens to tear the wizarding world apart.
Explore Hogwarts, Hogsmeade, the Forbidden Forest, and the surrounding Overland area. Learn spells, brew potions, grow plants, and tend to magical beasts along your journey. Get sorted into your House, forge relationships, and master skills to become the witch or wizard you want to be. Experience the wizarding world in an unexplored era to uncover a hidden truth from its past. Battle against trolls, Dark wizards, goblins, and more as you face a dangerous villain threatening the fate of the wizarding world.
Hogwarts Legacy is published by Warner Bros. Games under the Portkey Games label and developed by Avalanche Software. The game launched on 10 February 2023 on PlayStation 5, Xbox X|S, and PC, and will be released on 5 May 2023 on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and 25 July 2023 on Nintendo Switch.
Welcome to the Harry Potter Wiki, an encyclopaedic resource and community gathering spot for everything related to J. K. Rowling's Wizarding World. Whether you're looking for info on the Fantastic Beasts film series, the Harry Potter books, films, games or LEGO, we are the #1 Harry Potter fan database that anyone can edit.
The Harry Potter Wiki reveals plot details about the series. Read at your own risk! We are currently editing 19,384 articles since 5 July 2005.
Community • Wiki Tutorial • Help Pages • Guidelines
Internal
Community Portal • 
Wizengamot Forum • 
Help Desk Forum • 
Harry Potter Wiki Policies • 
Harry Potter Wiki Affiliates 
External
JKRowling.com • 
Pottermore • 
Warner Bros. • 
Bloomsbury.com • 
Scholastic.com • 
Raincoast.com
Other Wiki
Wizards Unite Wiki • 
Pottermore Wiki • 
Harry Potter Answers Wiki • 
Harry Potter Fanfiction Wiki • 
Harry Potter Fanon Wiki • 
Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality Wiki • 
The Potter Dictionary Wiki • 
Dumbledore's Army Role-Play Wiki • 
LEGO Harry Potter Wiki • 
AVPM Wiki • 
The J K Rowling Adult Fiction Wiki
Go to these sites for info or for help with your own wiki!
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland • 
Amulet • 
Anne of Green Gables • 
The Chronicles of Narnia • 
Dear America • 
Goosebumps • 
The Green Ember • 
Harry Potter • 
How to Train Your Dragon • 
Jumanji • 
Keeper of the Lost Cities • 
Little House on the Prairie • 
The Magic School Bus • 
Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children • 
Night Speakers • 
Oz • 
Peter Pan • 
The Polar Express • 
The Railway Series • 
Rainbow Magic • 
Tracy Beaker • 
The Unwanteds Series • 
Wings of Fire • 
Wonder
Want your community included? See how!
Professor Neville Longbottom (b. 30 July 1980) was a British pure-blood wizard, the only child and son of Frank and Alice Longbottom. Neville's parents were well-respected Aurors and members of the original Order of the Phoenix until they were tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange and three other Death Eaters with the Cruciatus Curse when he was about sixteen months old. They were placed in the Janus Thickey Ward at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, leaving Neville to be raised by his paternal grandmother, Augusta Longbottom.
At the time of his birth, Neville was marked by a prophecy as being one of two children with the potential to defeat Lord Voldemort, the most powerful and feared Dark wizard in the world. However, Voldemort's first attempt to circumvent the prophecy by killing Neville's later friend and classmate Harry Potter, ultimately established Harry as Voldemort's nemesis.
Neville began school at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1991 and was sorted into Gryffindor House, along with Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Ronald Weasley. Throughout his school years, he was mostly a shy, clumsy, introverted boy who was constantly being told by his grandmother that he was not good enough or living up to his parents' accomplishments. However, in his later years, he showed that he possessed great courage and perseverance: he became an important member of Dumbledore's Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter with the goal of helping other students learn spells to attack and defend themselves.
Neville would later fight in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries (1996), the Battle of the Astronomy Tower (1997), and the Battle of Hogwarts (1998). During the Battle of Hogwarts, having refused Voldemort's invitation to join the Death Eaters, he destroyed the seventh and final Horcrux when he beheaded the snake Nagini. He also co-led the D.A. during his final year in opposition to the Death Eater professors.
After the end of the Second Wizarding War, Neville briefly served as an Auror, before becoming the Herbology professor and the Head of Gryffindor House at Hogwarts and marrying Hannah Abbott from Hufflepuff. He was also the godfather of Harry and Ginny's second son, Albus Potter.
Infant Neville with his mother and father
Neville Longbottom was born on 30 July 1980 to Frank and Alice Longbottom, a pair of Aurors. Moments after his birth, Neville was able to adjust his blankets so that he was swaddled more snugly, but no one witnessed this unusually precocious display of underage magic. The midwife who attended the birth assumed that his father had tucked him in more tightly. Neville was born "several hours" before his classmate, Harry.
As a pure-blood wizard, he was likely related to other wizarding families such as the Weasleys, Crouches, Potters, and the Blacks. Neville's parents were members of the Order of the Phoenix and in these roles, they defied Lord Voldemort at least three times. Neville was one of two infants referred to in a prophecy made by Sybill Trelawney about the person with the power to defeat the Dark Lord. The other was Harry Potter, and it was Harry whom Voldemort targeted on 31 October 1981 making Harry his equal and leading to his first defeat.
Shortly after, a handful of Voldemort's most loyal followers attacked the Longbottoms. Frank and Alice were tortured into insanity with the Cruciatus Curse by Death Eaters Bellatrix Lestrange, her husband Rodolphus Lestrange, her brother-in-law Rabastan Lestrange, and Barty Crouch Jnr. The four Death Eaters were all sentenced to Azkaban for their crimes, while Frank and Alice were sent to St Mungo's Hospital, where they would live the rest of their lives, not being able to recognise their own son. Neville was subsequently raised by his paternal grandmother, Augusta Longbottom. At some point early in his life, he also witnessed the death of his grandfather.
Neville with his grandmother at platform 9¾ before boarding the Hogwarts Express
Neville's grandmother was a stern and formidable woman who was concerned when her grandson did not exhibit early signs of magic (Neville did, however, show faint signs of magic in him throughout his early years, something which his family persistently missed — the first such sign took place moments after birth, when Neville managed to magically shift his blankets more snugly over himself, something which went unnoticed by midwife who attended his mother). She often chided Neville for not living up to his family's honour and was partly the reason for Neville's lack of self-confidence early in his school years.
His relatives feared that Neville might be a Squib, though this was disproved when his great-uncle Algie was holding him out of a window by his feet when he was offered some lemon meringue and let go. Miraculously, Neville bounced. Previous to this, there were various attempts to make him show signs of magic, including dropping him off Blackpool pier, where, according to Neville, he nearly drowned. Neville inherited his father's wand at the age of eleven when he started to attend Hogwarts. This wand was later broken during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.
During a Christmas season in the 1980s, Neville travelled with his grandmother to St Mungos to visit his parents for the holidays. However, he soon became separated from her and ended up lost in the hospital. Fortunately, Neville encountered Jacob's sibling, who was searching for the Janus Thickey Ward in order to deliver Wizard Crackers to the patients there on behalf of Rubeus Hagrid. After explaining his situation to Jacob's sibling and introducing himself to them, Jacob's sibling recalled that two patients with the last name "Longbottom" resided in the Janus Thickey Ward and was able to help Neville locate them, to Neville's great relief. Neville offered to let Jacob's sibling meet his parents, informing them of their status as respected aurors who fought evildoers until the end. He stated that he was proud to be their son and knew that they loved him, even if they couldn't recognise him.
Neville asserted that he wanted to grow up to be just like his parents one day, but was afraid he would simply be a disappointment due to Augusta previously claiming that he had a lot to live up to. With some encouragement from Jacob's sibling, however, Neville promised to practise hard until he made his family proud. Jacob's sibling offered Neville a Wizard Cracker, which the boy happily accepted. However, he decided to wait to open it until Christmas morning so that his parents and grandmother could all see and to allow him to hold on to the happy feeling of the present just a little bit longer. Neville assured Jacob's sibling that he would be alright now and that his grandmother should be arriving at the ward soon, although he worried she would be upset at him for getting lost. Jacob's sibling reassured Neville that Augusta would simply be happy to see Neville again before the two wished each other a happy Christmas and went their separate ways.
Neville began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on 1 September 1991. While with his grandmother at platform 9¾, he lost his toad Trevor. Once on the train, he met Hermione Granger, who agreed to help him find his lost toad, and then Harry Potter and Ron Weasley when he entered their compartment tearfully looking for Trevor. After arriving at Hogsmeade station, Neville managed to retrieve his toad from Rubeus Hagrid.
Neville being sorted in 1991
Neville felt intimidated by Gryffindor's reputation for bravery. During the Sorting Ceremony, he silently argued for a long time to be placed in Hufflepuff, but the Sorting Hat won in the end, and Sorted him into Gryffindor. Neville was so nervous that when the Sorting Hat shouted out his house, he ran across the Great Hall with the Hat still on his head; he had to return to the stool to hand the Hat to the next student. On the way to Gryffindor Tower after the Welcoming Feast, Neville had a bundle of walking sticks dropped on his head by Peeves the Poltergeist.
Neville losing control of his broom during his first flying lesson
Much of his first year was plagued by similar mishaps. In his first Potions lesson, Neville melted Seamus Finnigan's cauldron, and was subsequently drenched in the boil-curing potion they had been brewing. The following week, in his first flying lesson with Madam Hooch, Neville accidentally broke his wrist after falling off his broom from a great height; afraid of being left behind on the ground, he had pushed off too early. He was taken to the hospital wing and his wrist was healed. Several hours later, he ended up heading to the Hogwarts Trophy Room with Harry, Ron, and Hermione for Harry's duel with Draco Malfoy. Nearly getting caught by Filch, they end up in the forbidden third floor corridor, where Neville drew Harry's attention to a giant three-headed dog. They manage to escape and safely return to Gryffindor Tower.
That year, Neville received a Remembrall from his grandmother as a gift which was flown in by an owl. This particular gift later allowed Harry Potter to become Gryffindor seeker. Draco Malfoy threw the small sphere into the air, and Harry flew to grab it, standing up for Neville. Minerva McGonagall saw how easily Harry retrieved the ball and asked him to join the team.
Shortly after the Christmas holidays, Neville was the target of a cruel prank by Draco Malfoy, in which his legs were stuck together with the Leg-Locker Curse. Neville had to bunny-hop all the way to Gryffindor Tower so someone could perform the counter-curse. When Harry, Ron, and Hermione urged him to report Malfoy, Neville replied that he didn't want more trouble. Harry gave Neville his last Chocolate Frog from Christmas and consoled him by telling that he was worth twelve Malfoys, and that the Sorting Hat chose him for Gryffindor, while Malfoy was in "stinking Slytherin". Several seconds later, Neville inadvertently helped the trio identify Nicolas Flamel when he gave Harry Dumbledore's collectible card from the Chocolate Frog.
Neville cheering on the Gryffindor Quidditch Team during a match
Neville was sent to the hospital wing a third time after a Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Hufflepuff. During the match, Malfoy began to taunt the Gryffindor Quidditch team, as well as Neville. Neville challenged Malfoy on hearing this, and single-handedly took on Malfoy's friends Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle, while Ron fought Malfoy. Although he was knocked out by Crabbe and Goyle, Madam Pomfrey insisted that Neville would make a full recovery. This was the first time that Neville stood up for himself.
In time, Neville learned about Harry and Hermione's attempt to take Norbert the Norwegian Ridgeback up to the Astronomy Tower to send to Ron's brother Charlie. When he learned Malfoy was trying to get them caught, Neville snuck out of Gryffindor Tower to find them and warn them. He instead ended up getting caught by Professor McGonagall. He lost fifty House points, and was put in detention with Harry, Hermione, and Malfoy. Sent into the Forbidden Forest with Hagrid to search for an injured unicorn, Neville and Malfoy went along one path with Fang, while the other three took another. When Malfoy snuck up behind Neville and grabbed him to scare him, Neville panicked and sent up wand sparks to warn Hagrid. When Hagrid learned the truth, he instead paired Neville with himself and Hermione.
Hermione casting the Full Body-Bind Curse on Neville
The night Quirinus Quirrell attempted to steal the Philosopher's Stone, Neville followed Harry's advice and attempted to stop Harry, Ron, and Hermione from sneaking out, though he did not know what they were trying to do. However, he thought that they should not be breaking rules and risking that Gryffindor would lose more points, and blocked the portrait hole, willing to fight them to make them stay. Hermione apologised and struck Neville with a Full Body-Bind Curse so that she, Harry, and Ron could leave. This was another early instance where Neville showed bravery, standing up to his only friends.
For standing up to the trio, Neville won ten points for Gryffindor at the end-of-term feast. Having moments before, tied Slytherin for the House Cup, this pushed Gryffindor into undisputed first place. In the final exams, he scored well in Herbology, making up for his poor marks in Potions.
Neville and his classmates in Gilderoy Lockhart's first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson
In 1992, after the Start-of-Term Feast, he applauded Harry and Ron for flying a car to Hogwarts. The following morning when Ron received a Howler from his mother, Neville warned him to open it quickly.
In Gilderoy Lockhart's first Defence Against the Dark Arts class, a pair of "freshly caught" Cornish pixies picked Neville up by the ears and hung him, by his cloak, from a chandelier. Moments later, he crashed back to the ground when the chandelier collapsed.
After the Basilisk attack on Colin Creevey, Neville feared that he might be attacked, due to his poor magical skills, and tried to protect himself by purchasing a large, "evil-smelling" green onion, a pointed purple crystal, and a rotting newt tail. However the other students pointed out that Neville should be all right; he was a pure-blood and thus unlikely to be attacked. However, he thought he was very close to being a Squib and was still in danger anyway.
The first and last meeting of the Duelling Club that Neville attended
Neville attended the first (and only) meeting of Lockhart's Duelling Club. To practise the Disarming Charm, Neville was paired with Justin Finch-Fletchley. When Lockhart suggested the pair to volunteer spell blocking, Snape shot this down, claiming that Neville had difficulty with the simplest spells, and they would have to send what was left of Justin to the hospital wing in a matchbox.
Shortly after Valentine's Day, Neville informed Harry that his belongings had been searched by someone.
Neville would have been present at the end of term feast that year, having thankfully not been attacked or petrified by the Basilisk, and would have been present when all his classmates who had been petrified returned to full health after being cured by Mandrake Restorative Draughts, and would have been there to greet Rubeus Hagrid following his release from Azkaban.
Dementors entering the compartment that the trio, Neville, Ginny, and Professor Lupin were in
On the train ride to Hogwarts for his third year, Neville became alarmed when the Hogwarts Express simply stopped. He entered the compartment Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Ron, and Ginny Weasley were in to find out what had happened. A Dementor then entered the compartment, negatively affecting all the students within, though to varying degrees. Then new Professor Lupin gave them chocolate telling them it would help them feel better about the shock. After arriving at Hogsmeade Station, Neville told people about the experience in the compartment. This made its way to Draco Malfoy, who taunted Harry about fainting.
In their first Divination class, Neville accidentally broke two of Professor Trelawney's tea cups while reading tea leaves. As the class departed, Professor Trelawney warned him that he would be late next class and urged him to work hard to catch up with everyone else. In Care of Magical Creatures class, Neville practised bowing to a hippogriff; he constantly backed away from the beast, which did not seem to want to bow back.
The next day in Potions, Neville again managed to earn the ire of Professor Snape. He somehow was able to turn his Shrinking Solution orange instead of green. To ensure Neville would get the potion right, Snape told him that he would feed some of it to Neville's pet toad, Trevor, at the end of the class. Desperately, he asked Hermione for help; she whispered instructions to him out of the corner of her mouth. By the end of class, he was able to turn his potion green, and successfully shrunk Trevor from a toad to a tadpole. Upon returning Trevor to his proper size, Snape took five points from Hermione simply to spite the Gryffindors.
Neville's Boggart, Professor Snape
Later that day, Neville helped Professor Remus Lupin's first practical Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson about boggarts. Neville was the first person to be asked. This was most likely because of Professor Lupin's preference for the underdog and him wanting to build Neville's confidence. When asked what scared him most in the world, Neville replied "Professor Snape", to which everyone found amusing. To counter the boggart, Lupin asked Neville to picture Snape in his grandmother's clothes. For his help, Neville earned ten points for Gryffindor and he confidently banished the boggart at the end of class.
McGonagall and the residents of Gryffindor Tower in the common room after Sirius Black's break-in
In the spring of 1994, Neville lost the passwords to Gryffindor Tower; because Sir Cadogan changed them so frequently, Neville needed to write them down so he could remember them. After the passwords disappeared, Sirius Black managed to enter Gryffindor Tower with a knife. After learning Neville was indirectly responsible, Professor McGonagall banned him from all future visits into Hogsmeade for the remainder of the school year, gave him a detention, and forbade anyone from giving him the password to the common room, thus he had to wait outside the portrait until someone came by while security trolls hired to guard the Fat Lady leered unpleasantly at him.
But none of that compared to what his grandmother had in store for him. Two days later during breakfast, Neville received a Howler from her; he tore out of the Great Hall, amid shouts of laughter, and opened it in the Entrance Hall, where his grandmother's angry voice told him he brought shame to their family.
At the end of his Divination final exam, Neville was told that, if he told anyone his results, he would suffer a serious accident.
In 1994, Neville met up with Harry, Ron, and Hermione on the Hogwarts Express. He jealously listened to their recap of the Quidditch World Cup; his grandmother had not wanted to go, and did not purchase tickets. He was also awestruck by Ron's miniature figurine of Viktor Krum.
"Moody" demonstrating the Cruciatus Curse on a spider
In "Mad-Eye" Moody's first Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Neville was able to supply information about the Unforgivable Curses, in particular the Cruciatus Curse. When Moody demonstrated the curse on a spider, Neville was terrified; he gripped his desk so hard, his knuckles turned white. Hermione noticed this and called for the professor to stop. After class, Moody — who was in fact Barty Crouch Jnr, one of the attackers of Neville's parents, under disguise by use of Polyjuice Potion — took Neville to his office for a cup of tea.
Having heard from Professor Sprout about Neville's aptitude in Herbology, Moody cheered Neville up by telling him what Sprout had said and gave him a number of books he thought Neville would enjoy. One of them was Magical Water Plants of the Mediterranean, which Crouch intended for Harry to read in order to learn all about Gillyweed for the second task, but he was stubbornly searching through the library.
A few days later in class, Neville was put under the Imperius Curse by Moody, under the pretence of letting the class know what it felt like. Under Moody's influence, Neville performed a series of "quite astonishing gymnastics" that he could not have performed normally.
Neville and Ginny Weasley at the Yule Ball
When the Yule Ball was announced during the Triwizard Tournament, Neville asked Hermione to go with him. After Hermione politely declined, having already agreed to attend with Viktor Krum, Neville asked Ginny Weasley. While the pair seemed to enjoy themselves, Neville accidentally stepped on Ginny's toes while dancing.
It can be assumed that Neville was among the spectators of the third task (Triwizard Maze), supporting Harry along with his fellow Gryffindors. He was also most likely among the mass of students that attended the Memorial feast to Cedric Diggory, after Cedric was murdered on the orders of Lord Voldemort.
Neville with the trio and Luna on the school's carriages
In 1995, Neville met with Harry and Ginny on the Hogwarts Express. Searching for seats, the trio entered Luna Lovegood's compartment. Once inside, he excitedly showed them his Mimbulus mimbletonia, a birthday present from his great-uncle Algie. He told them about his plans to show it to Professor Sprout, as well as wanting to breed it.
After arriving at Hogwarts, Neville helped Harry get into Gryffindor Tower as Harry had not learned the new password yet, and then defended Harry during a verbal fight with Seamus Finnigan, claiming that the Daily Prophet was going downhill, not Harry and Dumbledore. He and his grandmother both believed Harry's claim that Voldemort had returned, and had cancelled their subscription to the newspaper.
Neville finally mastering the Disarming Charm during a D.A. meeting
When Harry, Ron, and Hermione began organising Dumbledore's Army, Neville was among the first to sign up. At their first meeting in the Room of Requirement, Neville was left partner-less when they began practice; Neville instead partnered with Harry. After successfully disarming Harry, Neville then joined Ron and Hermione, so Harry could check on the others. With Harry's encouragement, by the beginning of Christmas break, Neville had improved "beyond all recognition."
Neville and his grandmother visiting St Mungo's
During Christmas break, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny learned that Neville's parents were not dead, but patients in St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, having gone insane after being tortured by a group of Death Eaters at the end of the First Wizarding War. Harry was the only one who already knew this, having found out in the Pensieve in 1994, but he had told no one, keeping Neville's secret safe. Before Neville left, his mother handed him an empty Droobles Blowing Gum wrapper; while his grandmother wanted him to throw it away, Neville instead pocketed it.
When it was learned that ten Death Eaters escaped from Azkaban in 1996, including three of the ones responsible for the torture of Neville's parents, Neville did not speak of it, but it "wrought a strange and even slightly alarming change" in him, according to Harry. He worked harder than anyone in D.A. meetings, and was the fastest to pick up new spells aside from Hermione.
When on 18 June Harry had a vision that Sirius Black was tortured by Voldemort in the Department of Mysteries at the Ministry of Magic, he informed Ron and Hermione. The latter convinced Harry to check to see if Sirius was at 12 Grimmauld Place before rushing off to rescue him, and Ginny and Luna came to their assistance. Harry and Hermione broke into Umbridge's office, and Ron wanted to trick Umbridge, Ginny and Luna stopped people from entering the corridor. Umbridge unfortunately wasn't fooled and ordered the Inquisitorial Squad to round them up. Neville, seeing what is going on, tried to help, but he was caught as well.
Neville riding on a Thestrals on the way to the Department of Mysteries
When Harry and Hermione lured Umbridge into the Forbidden Forest, Neville, Ron, Ginny, and Luna stayed alone with the Inquisitorial Squad. Neville and others broke free using skills that they had acquired in their D.A. sessions; Neville used good Impediment Jinx. They then regrouped with Harry and Hermione, who had left Umbridge with a group of enraged centaurs. He, Ron, Ginny and Luna joined Harry and Hermione, who had left Umbridge at the grace of infuriated centaurs. They fly via Thestrals to London, despite Harry's reluctance to let them accompany him.
Neville meeting Bellatrix Lestrange face-to-face in the Hall of Prophecy
Once in the Hall of Prophecies, Harry was drawn to an orb that had his name on it. Neville and Hermione urged him not to remove it; once Harry had, the group was confronted by Death Eaters. In the subsequent battle, Neville accompanied Harry and Hermione. They run into the Time Room, where he disarmed Rabastan Lestrange who was struggling with Harry, accidentally disarming Harry as well. Wanting to fix his mistake he tried to stun Lestrange, but he hit a rack full of time-turners. Escaping from room he was hit by Impediment Jinx by Antonin Dolohov and Jugson, same as Harry and Hermione.
When Hermione casted Silencing Charm on Dolohov and Harry placed Jugson under Full Body-Bind, Dolohov cursed Hermione. Taking advantage of the moment Neville crawled from under the desk, but Dolohov broke Neville's nose and wand, so Harry placed Dolohov under Full Body-Bind. Neville refused Harry's suggestion that he leave with an incapacitated Hermione to go get help, instead carrying her while he and Harry searched for Ron, Ginny, and Luna. When several Death Eaters cornered Harry alone in the Death Chamber, Neville stormed into the room to aid him, armed with Hermione's wand, but due to his broken nose, was unable to pronounce spells correctly.
Bellatrix Lestrange threatening Neville during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries
When another Death Eater seized Neville, Bellatrix Lestrange briefly tortured Neville with the Cruciatus Curse, both to try to make Harry hand over the prophecy and to see how long Neville held out before "cracking" like his parents. Even under the threat of being tortured (possibly even going insane like his parents), Neville told Harry not to hand the prophecy over.
After the Order of the Phoenix members arrived, Harry tried to get out with Neville, but Harry was stopped by Walden Macnair. Harry urged Neville to run, but Neville refused, instead breaking Macnair's grip on Harry by jabbing the Death Eater in the eye with Hermione's wand. Then Neville was strucked with Dancing Feet Spell by Dolohov, but Harry placed Dolohov under Body-Bind. Moments later they were attacked by Lucius Malfoy. Harry throw Neville the prophecy to cast Impediment Jinx on Malfoy. As Harry pulled Neville up a flight of stairs, Neville accidentally smashed the prophecy. As the battle continued, Neville alerted Harry to the appearance of Albus Dumbledore. The battle soon ended, and Neville and his friends were transported back to Hogwarts, where Neville's nose was fixed by Poppy Pomfrey.
Harry soon learned the contents of the prophecy from Dumbledore. As both Neville and Harry were born at the close of July to parents who had all escaped Voldemort three times, they both qualified for the prophecy child. However, Dumbledore believed that the prophecy did indeed refer to Harry, not Neville, as Voldemort marked Harry as his equal by attacking him.
Neville's grandmother purchased him a new wand, 13" cherry wood, with a unicorn hair core, from Garrick Ollivander before his sixth year.
Neville at the 1996 Start-of-Term Feast
On 1 September, 1996, Neville sat with Harry Potter and Luna Lovegood on the Hogwarts Express, where both of them expressed disappointment that Harry did not plan to continue D.A. meetings during their sixth year. When Romilda Vane, a younger Gryffindor student, invited Harry to come to her compartment and implicitly insulted Neville and Luna, Harry coldly rebuffed her, emphasising that Neville and Luna were among his closest and most loyal friends. Neville was later invited to join Horace Slughorn, the new Potions Master, in his train compartment. Slughorn was searching for new students to add to his Slug Club, but Neville didn't seem to meet Slughorn's requirements.
Neville behind Lavender Brown in the Gryffindor common room
Neville also achieved four known O.W.L.s: one 'Outstanding', two 'Exceeds Expectations', and one 'Acceptable'. The classes he were cleared to take were Herbology, Charms, and Defence Against the Dark Arts. Professor McGonagall informed him that the 'Acceptable' grade he achieved in Transfiguration was not good enough for N.E.W.T.-level, and he would not be able to keep up with the course work. McGonagall also stated that Professor Sprout would be delighted to see Neville back with an 'Outstanding' Herbology O.W.L.. He told her he only applied for Transfiguration for his grandmother's desires, but McGonagall stated it was time for Augusta to be proud of the grandson she had, as opposed to the one she desired. She let him down gently on his application on Transfiguration, and instead encouraged him to take Charms.
The funeral of Albus Dumbledore
Towards the end of the school year, Neville participated in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. Along with Luna Lovegood, he was the only member of Dumbledore's Army to reply to the summons via the coins. Neville stood guard outside the Room of Requirement with Ron and Ginny, waiting for Draco Malfoy, who evaded them by using Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder. Neville suffered an injury that kept him in the hospital wing for some time, though he was able to attend the funeral of Albus Dumbledore shortly afterwards, where Luna helped him into his seat.
Neville scorning Death Eaters searching for Harry Potter on the Hogwarts Express
On 1 August 1997, Lord Voldemort took over the Ministry of Magic. While Muggle-borns were rounded up and Harry, Ron, and Hermione went on the run to search for Voldemort's Horcruxes, Neville returned to Hogwarts, and, along with Ginny and Luna, restarted Dumbledore's Army. The D.A. opposed the new headmaster, Severus Snape, and the two new Death Eater professors, Alecto and Amycus Carrow, who taught anti-Muggle propaganda and the Dark Arts. Neville got in trouble with the Carrows for refusing to practise the Cruciatus Curse on other students as a method of punishment, as well as for standing up against their bigotry and cruelty.
The revived D.A. helped protect fellow students from being bullied by the Death Eater teachers, and generally rebelled against authority, such as writing "Dumbledore's Army, still recruiting" on the Hogwarts walls and freeing students from detention. Neville, Luna and Ginny also attempted to steal Godric Gryffindor's sword from Snape's office, but were caught on the way out. In his own way to subvert the Carrows' manner of discipline, Snape only gave them a detention, sending them into the Forbidden Forest with Hagrid. Neville eventually decided to cease their open rebellion after Michael Corner was caught and brutally tortured for freeing a chained-up first year.
A battered Neville, after being brutally punished by the Carrows
Neville was eventually left alone to lead the rebellion efforts, as Luna was dragged off the Hogwarts Express by Death Eaters around Christmas of 1997 to coerce her father into ceasing his political dissidence in The Quibbler, and Ginny did not return to Hogwarts following the Easter holidays, as her family went into hiding following Harry, Ron, and Hermione's escape from Malfoy Manor. By this time, the Carrows were aware of Neville's role in the rebellion, and he suffered beatings and torture. The Ministry also targeted Neville's grandmother to try to intimidate him, but she evaded capture and went on the run.
Eventually, the Carrows realised that Neville was the main ringleader and decided that Hogwarts could do without him. Fearing that they may kill him, Neville made for the Room of Requirement, which he was able to turn into a hiding place for the D.A., and to connect to the Hog's Head in order to get food from Aberforth Dumbledore. By May, most of the D.A. had taken to living there.
The trio and Neville in the Hog's Head Inn
On 2 May 1998, Neville enthusiastically greeted Harry, Hermione, and Ron, and led them from the Hog's Head into the Room of Requirement. While in the tunnel he explained to the trio the nature of his injuries and the reign of the Carrows at Hogwarts. He also informed the trio that the D.A. had been reinstated and was currently resisting the new regime. Believing that their return meant the overthrow of the Death Eater professors, Neville signalled the rest of the D.A. to return to Hogwarts. As students returned, along with the Order of the Phoenix, Voldemort and his Death Eater army approached, laying siege to the school in the hopes of capturing Harry Potter.
During the first round of battle, Neville used various plants to attack Death Eaters, and helped transport the injured and dead when a temporary cease-fire was called. He briefly spoke to Harry, who told him that it was top priority to kill Voldemort's snake and Horcrux, Nagini. When the Death Eaters approached with a "dead" Harry, Neville stood up in defiance of Voldemort. He was subsequently forced to wear the Sorting Hat as it burned because he refused to join Voldemort. Fortunately, due to Harry's sacrifice, Neville was able to shrug off the Full Body-Bind Curse with relative ease.
Neville slaying Nagini with the Sword of Gryffindor
Because of his tremendous bravery shown on the battlefield, Neville was able to pull the Sword of Gryffindor from the burning hat, in the process proving himself a true Gryffindor, something that was doubted constantly throughout his academic career due to his apparently weak-willed, shy, and bumbling nature. In a single stroke, he carried out Harry's final order, slaying Nagini, destroying Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux. Neville subsequently teamed up with Ron Weasley as the defenders of Hogwarts and Death Eaters were forced into the Great Hall and defeated Fenrir Greyback. Also during the Battle Neville duelled Scabior on the Covered Bridge. Scabior fell to his death when the bridge fell down.
Neville witnessed Harry's final defeat of Voldemort and survived the Second Wizarding War.
Neville Longbottom as a Hogwarts professor
Neville briefly worked as an Auror, immediately following the war. Sometime afterwards, he either sent an application to or was offered a place on the Hogwarts staff by Headmistress Minerva McGonagall, and ultimately landed a teaching job in the Herbology department, under Head of Department, Pomona Sprout.
Throughout his new career, his students would come to be impressed whenever he showed them his Dumbledore's Army coin, which he and other D.A. members kept as a keepsake and had come to be seen as something of a badge of honour. Neville also became the Head of Gryffindor House after McGonagall went on to be Headmistress.
Professor Longbottom during the Sorting Ceremony
Neville was present at the Sorting Ceremony in 2008, seated alongside his former professors and fellow Heads of House Pomona Sprout, Filius Flitwick and Horace Slughorn. After the term began, due to a mishap caused by a group of students, including Ivy Warrington who cast the Vanishing Spell and Vanished a suit of armour, Neville gave them detention, which was to polish the rest of the suits of armour without magic.
Neville introducing Harry to students
Later in the school year, during a detention session, Neville introduced his old friend Harry Potter to the students when he visited the school. When an unidentified student realised they had seen Harry at King's Cross Station, Harry remarked they had been very confused, which Neville thought would happen to the best of them. Harry and Neville also recalled the numerous adventures they had gone through when they were in school, and Neville remarked that despite the experiences, they always tried to stay out of trouble, but he and Harry knew it couldn't have been true, which was also reflected on their faces. Neville then walked Harry out when he decided to leave.
Neville catching up with students after their duel with the masked wizard
During the first Hogsmeade weekend trip in the 2010–2011 school year, Neville caught up with Ivy Warrington, Daniel Page and another student after they fought a masked wizard following a magical display that damaged a tree. He prompted Ivy to go to the Hospital Wing to fix her broken arm and the others to visit the Headmistress to tell the story, before noticing some red origami birds landing near them, which were signed by NOTME. He cast some spells to mend the damaged tree.
Linderina Crane gesturing Neville's height
Later in Herbology class when he was teaching Mimbulus mimbletonia to third-year students, he was interrupted by Linderina Crane who came to investigate his role in the Hogsmeade incident, but since the last spells he had cast were for mending the tree in Hogsmeade, the Reverse Spell couldn't reveal anything related to damaging it even if he had done such a thing, and so the investigation was inconclusive.
Linderina Crane interrupting Neville's class again
He was interrupted again by Crane in another class when talking about vampiric vegetation, and was asked about his storeroom. Though he denied there could be anything fishy going on, Crane still intended to check it out.
Neville attacked by a Dementor
At some point amidst all this, Dementors initiated an attack on Hogwarts Castle. Neville was their first victim, being attacked by a Dementor when he was picking herbs with students in the Forbidden Forest. Rubeus Hagrid arrived soon enough and took Neville to the Hospital Wing. After he recovered, he participated in the all-out battle that followed.
Neville talking about the Mimbulus mimbletonia
Neville enlisted some students to help with caring for his Mimbulus mimbletonia over the winter. It bloomed in spring, and he held a Blooming Party for it. Everyone there cast the Bubble-Head Charm on themselves to block the foul odour of Stinksap, except Neville who had long grown accustomed to the smell.
Neville controlled by Victor Gridley
Unbeknownst to him, Victor Gridley and his associate Mr Pronk had been sneaked into Hogwarts by Daniel Page and attended his party in disguise. When another knowing student returned Gridley to his original look, he summoned Mr Pronk and kidnapped Neville. Gridley subsequently interrogated Neville, and found that he was genuinely ignorant about NOTME and his business affairs. He was put in the dungeon of Gridley's caravan along with Daniel's sister Esme.
Neville punching Gridley unconscious
Neville remained unconscious when Daniel Page, Ivy Warrington and their friend arrived at the caravan dungeon to save him and Esme. At the end of their fight with Gridley and his Dementors, Neville's wand was taken by Gridley, who had had his own wand snapped in half by Daniel, but Neville then awakened and knocked Gridley out with his bare fist, ending the confrontation. Neville saw Esme's injuries and suggested she be treated at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries which had wonderful Healers.
Sometime before 2014, he married his former classmate and D.A. member Hannah Abbott. The pair lived at the Leaky Cauldron, where she became the landlady. Hannah had retired from being landlady as of 2014, she and Neville were childless and scathingly reported by Rita Skeeter as "enjoying a little more Ogden's Firewhisky than most would expect from custodians of our children". Whether this was true or simply another scandalous rumour from Rita Skeeter is unknown. It was reported by Rita Skeeter that Neville was the godfather of Harry's second son, Albus Potter.
Over the years, he remained in contact with his old friends, as in 2017, Ginny told her and Harry's eldest son "to give Neville their love" when he arrived at Hogwarts.
In the late 2010s and early 2020s, Neville aided members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force who pursued a profession as a Professor by showing them a mental trick to make casting the Deterioration Hex seem as a second nature to profoundly increase its effects, while he also instructed the Magizoologists how to use the Bravery Charm to devastating effect. Neville also sent an owl to a Calamity Investigator working for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force advising them that bitter root should be dried for several days before use, making it more potent and thus reducing the brewing time for the Calamity Investigator's Exstimulo Potions.
He also later contacted the same Calamity Investigator to inform them that stroking, talking, and singing to plants encouraged their growth, with the Calamity Investigator later using this information to discover that singing the greatest hits of Celestina Warbeck to Dittany greatly increased its potency, decreasing the brewing time for their Healing Potions.
During the fifth annual Vegetable Vault competition, which was held in Hogsmeade, Neville collected the winning Leaping Toadstools upon their crossing the finishing line, as these Leaping Toadstools were the most potent. He also spent time telling stories of his years at Hogwarts to the same Calamity Investigator in the Great Hall, helping them to understand the castle more deeply and making it eaiser for them to return Hogwarts School Traces. Later, Neville spoke with the same Calamity Investigator regarding their Greenhouse Charm and provided improvements to the incantation and stance used when casting it. He later asked the same Calamity Investigator to procure dung from an Antipodean Opaleye dragon to use as a potent fertiliser before discussing the properties of fertilisers with the Calamity Investigator.
Neville also later helped the same Calamity Investigator to create a successful system for distributing excess ingredients from wizarding Greenhouses, for which Neville made sure they were rightly compensated. He also held a mandatory Herbology lecture for members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force, including the same Calamity Investigator, where he discussed better clipping techniques and allowed the Calamity Investigator to try them out.
Neville in his sixth year, age 16
Neville was said to strongly resemble his mother. He was round-faced, short, chubby, and had blond hair. He was also somewhat buck-toothed. Pansy Parkinson had once called him "fat", but this may have been an exaggeration, as she frequently made disparaging comments about Gryffindor students.
When he was younger, Neville was clumsy, forgetful, shy, and many considered him ill-suited for Gryffindor house because he seemed timid. However, Neville proved that the Sorting Hat had seen the bravery beneath his insecurity, as he stood up to his only friends as a first-year and later became one of the D.A.'s most courageous members. Part of Neville's problem seems to have been poor self-esteem, as he referred to himself as a "nobody" and "almost a Squib" at times. This was likely caused by his grandmother's belief that he was not living up to his parents' accomplishments, and browbeating from fellow students and people like Professor Snape. Though he came from a pure-blood family, he held no prejudice against half-bloods or Muggle-borns.
Neville appeared to suffer from a degree of post-traumatic stress disorder, as the torture of a spider via the cruciatus curse by Barty Crouch Junior in disguise as Alastor Moody was enough to cause him a severe anxiety attack. This was likely due to his own experience with his parents being subjected to the curse's worst possible outcome: the onset of permanent and complete insanity. This familiarity of what the Cruciatus Curse could do in skilled enough hands was more than enough to terrify him.
Neville and his interest in Herbology
With the support of his friends, the encouragement of Professor Lupin to face his fears, and the motivation of knowing his parents' torturers were on the loose, Neville became braver, more self-assured, and dedicated to the fight against Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters. This was proven by his participation in many battles and his revival of the D.A. in the face of threats and torture at the hands of the Carrows in his seventh year, as well as his defiance of Voldemort himself during the final battle.
Throughout the trials he faced over his seven years at Hogwarts, Neville blossomed from a timid, self-deprecating, and generally nervous student into a stalwart soldier possessed of an ironclad will, courage of outstanding merit, and a nobility of spirit, despite still having a comical and shy but at the same time courageous and fierce personality. In many ways, Neville's transformation allowed him to change from a scaredy-cat into a lordly lion, becoming a ferocious defender of his fellow students during Voldemort's reign. Suffice it to say, Neville's appointment to Gryffindor House was well-deserved.
Neville was not an academically strong student in his early years, often requiring Hermione's help in class and with school-work. However (as confirmed by McGonagall), part of this was likely caused by his use of another's wand, poor self-esteem, and anxiety caused by the incessant bullying from many of his peers and Snape. When he found both courage and self-confidence in his later years, Neville's magical skills as a wizard grew and he proved to be a powerful wizard in his own right.
Neville mastering the Boggart-Banishing Spell
Neville's second wand: 13", cherry wood, and unicorn hair core
Trevor, Neville's pet toad
Neville's Remembrall
Mimbulus Mimbletonia
Frank and Alice with baby Neville
As Neville's parents, Alice and Frank Longbottom, had been permanent residents of St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries since Neville's infancy, he never knew them as the popular and talented Aurors they were reputed to be. Nevertheless, he held them in high esteem, much like his friend Harry looked up to the parents he never knew.
Neville regularly visited his parents at St Mungo's with his grandmother, where he tried to speak to them and brought them sweets, keeping the wrappers his mother handed back to him, even when his grandmother told him to throw them in the bin. Their torture clearly haunted him, as he was badly shaken by seeing the Cruciatus Curse demonstrated on a spider in his fourth year.
When the Lestranges escaped from Azkaban in 1996, Neville did not discuss it, but he became very dedicated to his training in Dumbledore's Army. During the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, he was taunted about his parents by Bellatrix Lestrange, who also briefly subjected him to the Cruciatus Curse, but Neville remained defiant. Neville would later carry on their legacy as a resistance fighter against Voldemort's regime at Hogwarts, and later in his brief career as an Auror.
Augusta Longbottom, his paternal grandmother
Neville was raised by his grandmother, Augusta Longbottom, after his parents were tortured to the point of insanity when he was an infant. This was pivotal in the development of his personality, as his grandmother often expressed her disappointment with her grandson's seeming lack of magical ability, and what she considered his inability to live up to his parents' skills. By Minerva McGonagall's claim, however, Augusta should be proud of the grandson she has, as opposed to the one she wants.
When Neville was a child, his grandmother, as well as some of his other relatives, feared that he might have been a Squib. However, when Neville showed great bravery and heroism during the Second Wizarding War, his grandmother was clearly very proud of him. She came to Hogwarts during the final battle and ran off to assist him in fighting Death Eaters.
Neville appeared to be fairly close to his great-uncle Algie, who tried to "scare" magic into him when he was younger; he once accidentally dropped Neville out of a window while reaching for a meringue, and when Neville bounced, his family was pleased to discover that he was not, in fact, a Squib. Algie later rewarded him with his pet toad Trevor for getting into Hogwarts. Algie and Neville appear to have shared an interest in Herbology, as Algie gave Neville his very rare Mimbulus mimbletonia plant, which at one point was the password to the Gryffindor common room. However, as Algie was willing to risk Neville's life to reveal his magic, such as pushing him into a lake and dangling him from a window, Algie more then likely cares for Neville's magic more than the boy himself.
Hannah Abbott, his future wife
Neville and Hannah Abbott were never shown as being more than classmates during school. Since Hannah was in Hufflepuff House and Neville in Gryffindor, they probably did not spend too much time together, though it is possible that they became friends when they were both members of Dumbledore's Army. Sometime after leaving Hogwarts, Neville and Hannah married and moved into the Leaky Cauldron, where she worked as the landlady and Neville as the Hogwarts Herbology teacher.
It is also possible that she and Neville became close during Herbology lessons, as those were shared by Gryffindor and Hufflepuff of their year. It stands to reason that, since Herbology was where Neville excelled, he may have been confident and even charming amongst the plant life, thus attracting Hannah's attention. Since Hannah lost her mother in her sixth year, it may also have been Neville's ability to sympathise with her grief that brought the two together, or simply Hannah felt attracted to Neville's heroism in the Battle of Hogwarts and when the war was over she kept contact with him, they fell in love and got married.
Hannah is eventually retrained as a Healer and applies to become the new matron of Hogwarts, a job held by Poppy Pomfrey during their years as students. It is possible that she applied in order to be closer to Neville. However, in the year 2020, Madame Pomfrey is seen to still be the matron, as she resets Albus Potter's broken arm.
Trevor, his pet toad
Trevor was Neville's pet toad. He was given to Neville by his Uncle Algie upon Neville's gaining admission to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Neville often lost Trevor, as he did the first time he rode the Hogwarts Express and Hermione Granger met Harry Potter and Ron Weasley as she helped him search. In Neville's third year, Professor Snape made him test his Shrinking Solution on the toad; though Neville's dubious potion-making skills could have resulted in the toad's death, Trevor was successfully transformed into a tadpole, much to the Gryffindors' delight.
At some point, Trevor escaped into the Hogwarts Lake. Both pet and owner felt a sense of relief.
Harry Potter, his good friend and room-mate
Neville first met Harry Potter in 1991, while Neville was looking for his toad, Trevor, on the Hogwarts Express. They became classmates and room-mates after they were both sorted into the Gryffindor house, and came to be good friends over the years. In 1994, Harry learned that Neville's parents were tortured into insanity by Barty Crouch Jnr, Bellatrix, Rodolphus, and Rabastan Lestrange. Harry felt that Neville was far more deserving of pity than he, though he promised Dumbledore not to tell anyone what he knew, as it was Neville's decision whether or not to reveal his past to his friends.
In their fifth year, Neville became a member of Dumbledore's Army, an organisation led by Harry to oppose Dolores Umbridge and learn practical defensive magic. After the Lestranges escaped from Azkaban that same year, Neville resolved to become stronger and try to honour his parents' reputations as excellent Aurors. True to his word, Neville fought alongside Harry at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and saved Harry's life from Walden Macnair when Macnair attempted to strangle Harry. When Harry was crying over the death of Sirius Black, Neville did not question nor protest Harry's friendship with an alleged criminal and mass murder, instead consoling him for his godfather's demise.
In 1996, Harry refused to allow Romilda Vane to insult Neville and Luna Lovegood, stating that they were his real friends, and the only ones who had fought alongside Ron, Ginny, Hermione, and himself at the Department of Mysteries. At the end of the year, Neville and Harry both fought in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and attended Dumbledore's funeral.
The next year, while Harry, Ron and Hermione left Hogwarts to search for Voldemort's Horcruxes, Neville, along with Ginny Weasley and Luna Lovegood, led Dumbledore's Army in maintaining a steady level of opposition against Alecto and Amycus Carrow, two Death Eaters who had been appointed deputy Headmaster and Headmistress of Hogwarts under Severus Snape. Neville would later state that the hope Harry inspired in standing up to his enemies drove Neville to do the same. Neville and Harry fought together in the Battle of Hogwarts, where Harry realised that Neville was one of his closest friends and one of the few people he would like to see once again before he dies in the forest and Neville showed his bravery and loyalty to Harry when he openly defied Voldemort and beheaded Nagini, destroying Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux.
Neville and Harry remained in contact after the end of the Second Wizarding War and Harry made Neville the godfather of his son Albus Severus, showing their good friendship. Harry's children were later taught by Neville, who had been appointed Herbology professor at Hogwarts.
Hermione Granger, his friend
Neville met Hermione Granger on the Hogwarts Express when she helped him find Trevor, his toad. During their years at Hogwarts, they became closer as Hermione encouraged him to stand up for himself when Draco Malfoy and his friends played pranks on him, or made jokes at his expense.
Because of his lack of confidence in classes, Neville frequently made mistakes, and Hermione usually came to his assistance, often whispering instructions in his ear. She also took note of how shaken Neville was by their fourth year lesson on the Unforgivable Curses, shouting for Professor Moody to stop demonstrating the Cruciatus Curse and later asking Neville if it was all right. Because Hermione had "always been so nice", Neville plucked up the courage to ask her to the Yule Ball in 1994, though she had already accepted the offer of Viktor Krum.
Neville and Hermione became members of Dumbledore's Army in 1995, during their fifth year at Hogwarts, and fought together at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, as well as in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower in 1997. When the trio returned to Hogwarts in 1998 just before the Battle of Hogwarts, it was Neville who greeted them enthusiastically, and who first expressed a willingness to help them in any way possible and to fight the incoming Death Eater army.
After the Second Wizarding War, the two best friends remained in contact throughout the years.
Ron Weasley, his friend and room-mate
Neville met Ron Weasley on the Hogwarts Express at the start of their first year. As both were sorted into Gryffindor house, they became room-mates. Over time, Neville became good friends with Ron, who, like Hermione and Harry, encouraged Neville not to let the Slytherins get to him.
Ron, Hermione, and Ginny all learned about Neville's parents during their fifth year at Hogwarts, and were shocked to learn that the good-natured, clumsy boy was carrying such a dark secret. Ron and Neville both became members of Dumbledore's Army in 1995, in order to oppose Professor Umbridge and learn to fight the Death Eaters. They fought alongside one another at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. Neville greeted Ron, Harry, and Hermione enthusiastically when they returned to Hogwarts in 1998, and they all fought against Voldemort's forces in the Battle of Hogwarts. During the battle, Neville and Ron defeated Fenrir Greyback together protecting each other, after the battle they remained as best friends and they regularly see each other.
Ginny Weasley, a good friend and his Yule Ball date
After asking Hermione to the Yule Ball in his fourth year and being turned down because she had already agreed to attend with Viktor Krum, Neville asked Ginny Weasley. She agreed to go with him as a friend, being too young to attend otherwise.
The two continued to be friendly afterwards, and Ginny, like Harry, Hermione and Ron, encouraged Neville to be more confident. She and Luna Lovegood were co-leaders of the re-formed Dumbledore's Army along with Neville when Snape and the Carrows controlled Hogwarts. Ginny and Neville also fought at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, and the Battle of Hogwarts (where they blew up together the covered bridge).
After the war, Ginny and Neville remained in contact, and they remained closest friends, with Ginny naming Neville godfather to her son Albus Severus and being on friendly terms with her other son, James Sirius.
Luna Lovegood, a good friend
Neville and Luna, a Ravenclaw student, first met on the Hogwarts Express, in 1995. Neville found Luna a bit "odd", as she believed in the existence of strange, mythical creatures, had a tendency to read magazines upside down, and wore earrings that appeared to be made of radishes. Luna, like Harry and Neville, had the ability to see Thestrals, as they had all seen someone die.
Spacey as Luna seemed, she fought alongside Neville at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, and the Battle of Hogwarts. At some point they became very close friends. During Neville's last year at Hogwarts, he, Luna and Ginny, re-formed and co-led Dumbledore's Army in order to oppose the Carrows. Neville seems to have a place in his heart for Luna, they also remained close friends in later life. It seemed that Luna was always glad when Neville, Ginny, Hermione, Ron, and Harry were close by, proved when the trio visited Luna's father Xenophilius Lovegood and seeing Luna's room with their painting on her bedroom ceiling connected with gold letters spelling "friends".
Draco Malfoy, his school bully
Initially shy and clumsy, Neville regularly found himself on the receiving end of insults from Draco and his gang, and was often the butt of their jokes and pranks — a fact which served only to make Neville clumsier and less confident. When encouraged by Hermione, Ron, and Harry to stand up for himself, Neville replied with "how I can barely stand at all" but, despite this previous mind set Neville grew to be someone who was much more difficult to bully by his later years at Hogwarts.
He started resisting against not only the Slytherin students, but also Alecto and Amycus Carrow and Severus Snape. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Neville proved to have made an impressive and complete turn around from his earlier years of crumbling under Draco's bullying, when he openly defied Lord Voldemort and beheaded Nagini, effectively destroying Voldemort's final Horcrux.
Dumbledore's Army, his friends and allies
Dumbledore's Army was an organisation led by Harry Potter that sought not only to undermine the dictatorial authority of Dolores Umbridge, but to offer students a means of learning the practical defensive magic Umbridge denied them in their actual Defence Against the Dark Arts class. Neville became a member at the time of its formation in 1995, and this marked something of a turning point both in terms Neville's relationships with other Hogwarts students, and in terms of his magical ability beyond Herbology. As the D.A.'s practice progressed throughout the course of the year, Neville showed marked improvement in his ability to disarm and stun, as well as perform the Impediment Jinx and Reductor Curse, among others.
When several Death Eaters escaped from Azkaban in early 1996, all of the D.A. pushed themselves to improve their duelling abilities, but none more than Neville, as three of the escapees had taken part in torturing his parents into insanity.
While training with the D.A.equipped Neville to face the Death Eaters in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the sense of camaraderie Neville enjoyed with them made him one of only three members (along with Ginny Weasley and Luna Lovegood) to answer Ron and Hermione's call leading up to the Battle of the Astronomy Tower.
Neville, Ginny and Luna co-led the DA in 1997, when it was re-formed to oppose the reign of Severus Snape, Alecto Carrow, and Amycus Carrow at Hogwarts. Most of the former members reunited and spent ample time hiding in the Room of Requirement, awaiting the return of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. They were quick to mobilise against the invading Death Eaters, with Neville at their lead, while Harry, Ron, and Hermione were searching for Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem. While Fred Weasley, Lavender Brown and Colin Creevey were tragically killed, Neville fought valiantly and eventually beheaded Nagini on Harry's orders, destroyed Voldemort's final remaining Horcrux.
Bellatrix Lestrange, a Death Eater who took part in the torture of his parents, causing them to go insane.
Bellatrix Lestrange led fellow Death Eaters; Rodolphus Lestrange, Rabastan Lestrange, and Barty Crouch Jnr in the torture Neville's parents by means of the Cruciatus Curse, leaving them permanently incapacitated in St Mungo's. When Bellatrix escaped from Azkaban prison in January 1996, Neville was heavily affected.
His performance in Dumbledore's Army increased to the point where he managed to master the Shield Charm before everyone but Hermione. When he went to the Ministry of Magic later that year, Bellatrix taunted him about his parents, but Neville fought back, much to Bellatrix's surprise. Neville also saw Bellatrix murder Sirius Black, and expressed his condolences to Harry. Neville met Bellatrix again in 1998, during the Battle of Hogwarts, where she was eventually killed in a duel by Molly Weasley.
Severus Snape, his professor and Boggart
During his years at school, Neville was terrified of Professor Severus Snape, and the poor boy managed to earn the Potions Master's ire in almost every lesson. Snape regularly and unnecessarily targeted Neville with verbal taunts, threats, sarcasm, and malice, which put an extremely nervous Neville even more on edge. Snape went so far as to feed a few drops of Neville's Shrinking Solution to Neville's pet, Trevor, so as to humiliate him for doing badly on the potion and almost kill Neville's toad. Thanks to Hermione, Neville was able to fix his potion so that his toad wasn't harmed.
Neville admitted in 1993 that Snape scared him more than anything else in the world, and was the form his boggart took. When Professor Lupin asked the Defence Against the Dark Arts class what frightened them the most, Neville at first mumbled inaudibly; when Professor Lupin asked Neville to say it clearly, Neville (after wildly looking around) whispered "Professor Snape." Nearly everyone laughed at that, and then Professor Lupin replied thoughtfully, "Professor Snape."
When he sat his Potions O.W.L. in 1996, Harry noted that Neville looked happier than usual without Snape around. Neville also co-led the second Dumbledore's Army and wrote slogans on the walls, in order to oppose Snape and the Carrows. Snape was killed by Nagini during the Battle of Hogwarts. Though Neville was present when Harry informed Voldemort of Snape's true allegiance, it is unknown how Neville reacted. It is possible Snape hated Neville so much because if Voldemort had chosen to go after him rather than Harry, Lily would still be alive.
Albus Dumbledore, his headmaster
Neville thought Albus Dumbledore was the greatest wizard of all time. He met Dumbledore in 1991, when he was the headmaster of Hogwarts. At the end of Neville's first year, Dumbledore awarded Gryffindor the ten points they needed to win the House cup because Neville had the courage to try and stop Harry, Hermione, and Ron from leaving the Gryffindor tower after hours. Dumbledore also knew about Neville's parents, and told Harry not to say anything, leaving Neville the right to choose when he revealed his past to his friends.
Dumbledore and Neville also fought together at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, where Dumbledore was killed by Severus Snape. Neville was devastated by his death. Neville despised professor Dolores Umbridge, the Ministry-appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor for the 1995–1996 school year. Like nearly everyone else at Hogwarts, with the possible exception of some of the Slytherin students and Argus Filch, Neville hated Umbridge for her sadistic punishments and attempts to control the school. He became a member of Dumbledore's Army partially in order to oppose her. Umbridge left the school in 1996 after paying the price for verbally assaulting a herd of centaurs and attempting to flee; she was discovered by Peeves, who led the students in chasing her away from the school.
Death Eaters Alecto and Amycus Carrow were appointed professors at Hogwarts in 1997, after Dumbledore's death. Amycus taught Defence Against the Dark Arts, which he changed to the Dark Arts, and Alecto taught Muggle Studies with an obvious anti-Muggle slant. Amycus and Alecto liked to punish the students with the use of torture, and ordered students to practise the Cruciatus Curse on other students who had been detained. Neville helped re-form Dumbledore's Army, along with Ginny and Luna, and maintained a steady opposition against the Carrows throughout the course of the year. In an attempt to control Neville, Ministry Auror John Dawlish was sent to take Neville's grandmother hostage; unfortunately for Dawlish, the tenacious Augusta Longbottom fought back, apparently putting Dawlish in St Mungo's and going on the run. As the Carrows no longer had hope of finding any real leverage to use against Neville, and had no reason not to simply kill him, Neville went into hiding in the Room of Requirement, where he was soon joined by a number of other Gryffindor, Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw students who saw fit to do the same.
Professor McGonagall, his Head of House and professor
Minerva McGonagall was Neville's Head of House and Transfiguration professor during his years at Hogwarts. She often scolded Neville for his clumsiness and incompetence, though it was more likely his lack of confidence that frustrated her. McGonagall knew that Neville was capable of more than he seemed and saw that he was actually brave, and thus encouraged him to work to his potential. She was also a friend of Neville's grandmother, and had known his parents in their days as Aurors. Neville and McGonagall both fought in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts, and both survived the war. Years after the war, Neville was given the position of Herbology professor at Hogwarts, although it is unknown if McGonagall was still teaching there.
Professor Sprout, his Herbology professor
Professor Sprout was Neville's Herbology professor, and as Neville proved to be quite adept at Herbology, possibly the best in the year, she was undoubtedly the Professor he got along with best. At one point, Sprout even spoke of Neville's strength in the subject to Barty Crouch Jnr, while he was disguised as Professor Moody. Neville helped Sprout use Devil's Snare, Mandrakes, Venomous Tentacula, and Snargaluff pods to attack the Death Eaters during the Battle of Hogwarts, and they both survived the war. It is likely that Sprout had retired by the time Neville was appointed the new Herbology Professor, though they may have taught the class together.
Bartemius Crouch Jnr, who helped torture his parents into insanity
Barty Crouch Junior was also involved in the torture of Neville's parents by means of the Cruciatus Curse. During Neville's fourth year, Barty impersonated Alastor Moody and served as Neville's Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor.
During his first lesson with the fourth years, Barty (as Moody) took notice of Neville's name on the class register. He then demonstrated the three Unforgivable Curses on spiders, including the Cruciatus Curse, which left Neville deeply shaken. "Moody" afterwards had tea with Neville and gave him a book about Herbology, seemingly out of comfort and support, although it was later revealed that he had only done so to give Harry a clue about the Triwizard Tournament's second task. It is unknown how Neville reacted upon learning the truth about his D.A.D.A. teacher. Barty Crouch was given the Dementor's Kiss in 1995 after having been exposed, losing his soul.
Lord Voldemort, an enemy
Neville was one of the two boys possibly referred to in the prophecy as being destined to bring about Voldemort's end. However, Voldemort chose to target the Potters based on the simple concept that Harry was a half-blood like himself, thus marking Harry, and not Neville, as his equal. After Lord Voldemort's first defeat, four fanatically loyal Death Eaters tortured Neville's parents, Frank and Alice Longbottom, to the point of insanity, using the Cruciatus Curse, in an attempt to force Voldemort's whereabouts out of them; this fact initially haunted Neville, but eventually spurred him to rise to his full potential.
After honing his skills and steadily acquiring self-confidence through training with Dumbledore's Army, Neville fought against Voldemort's Death Eaters countless times during the Second Wizarding War. Near the end of the Battle of Hogwarts, Neville actually attempted to charge directly at Voldemort, presumably aiming to slay Nagini, as Harry had told him she had to die at all costs. Voldemort offered Neville the chance to join him, commending his "spirit and bravery"; Neville declined, and instead, drew the Sword of Gryffindor from the Sorting Hat and succeeded in beheading Nagini. As Nagini had been Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux, Neville's incredible display of bravery allowed Harry to defeat Voldemort once and for all.
In addition to this, Neville also indirectly fulfilled his role in the prophecy by destroying Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux as it was this act which rendered Voldemort mortal and allowed Harry to finally defeat Voldemort. Although Voldemort chose to mark Harry as his target based on the prophecy, Neville proved by standing up to him and destroying his final Horcrux that he was capable of being the other boy to meet the prophecy's requirements. It is unknown whether Voldemort recognised Neville as the other boy which the prophecy referred to and it is also unknown if Neville ever learnt this himself after Voldemort's final defeat.
Neville as a LEGO mini-figure (first edition)
Neville as a LEGO mini-figure (second edition)
Neville as a LEGO mini-figure (third edition)
Neville Longbottom (holding Trevor) as a POP! Vinyl
Neville Longbottom holding The Monster Book of Monsters as a POP! Vinyl
"Neville Longbottom" Trading Card from the Quidditch Cup Expansion of the Harry Potter Trading Card Game depicting Neville and Trevor
Quidditch Fan Neville Longbottom as he appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Neville Longbottom as he appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Draco Lucius Malfoy (b. 5 June 1980) was a British pure-blood wizard and the only son of Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy (née Black). The son of a Death Eater, Draco was raised to strongly believe in the importance of blood purity. He looked down on half-bloods and Muggle-borns.
Draco attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1991-1998. He was sorted into Slytherin House the moment the Sorting Hat touched his head. During his years at Hogwarts, he became friends with Vincent Crabbe, Gregory Goyle, Pansy Parkinson, and other fellow Slytherins, but he quickly developed a rivalry with Harry Potter.
He was made a prefect of his house and was a member of the Inquisitorial Squad during his fifth year, at the end of which his father was imprisoned in Azkaban following the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. Lord Voldemort charged Draco with making up for Lucius's failure, and he became a Death Eater at age sixteen but was quickly disillusioned with the lifestyle.
Draco was unable to complete his task of murdering Albus Dumbledore, which was later taken over by Severus Snape, and only performed his other duties fearfully and reluctantly. He and his family defected hours before the end of the Second Wizarding War, fearing for their lives.
By 2017, Draco had married Astoria Greengrass and had one child, Scorpius Hyperion Malfoy.
Draco on the Black Family Tree tapestry
Draco Lucius Malfoy was born on 5 June 1980, to Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy (née Black), who were both born into old, wealthy pure-blood families. Both the Malfoys' and the Blacks had traditionally been in Slytherin House for centuries and strongly disapproved of any relatives who did not follow in this tradition, such as Sirius Black.
Draco was raised in an atmosphere of regret that the Lord Voldemort had not succeeded in taking command of the wizarding community, although he was prudently reminded that such sentiments ought not to be expressed outside the small circle of the family and their close friends 'or Daddy might get into trouble'. The Malfoys' were very proud of their Pure-blood and social status; until 1996, they were able to maintain a respectable public image while being allied with Lord Voldemort. Lucius was a Death Eater who avoided imprisonment in Azkaban following the First Wizarding War by claiming that he had been under the Imperius Curse, while Narcissa merely agreed with the ideology of pure-blood supremacy.
The Malfoys spoiled their son, giving him the best of everything as far as material possessions go. The only two hand-me-down things Draco ever received were the old family prejudice against Muggles, Muggle-borns, half-breeds, and blood traitors — in short, prejudice against anyone who was not a pure-blood wizardkind, or anyone who supports these types of people — and the Malfoy family's vast collection of powerful dark artefacts harking back to the family history.
A young Draco Malfoy speaking to Jacob's sibling at Hogwarts
In his childhood, Draco associated mainly with the pure-blood children of his father's ex-Death Eater cronies and therefore arrived at Hogwarts with a small gang of friends already made, including Theodore Nott and Vincent Crabbe. He visited the school himself when Lucius came to inspect, and his father entrusted Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde to babysit him, a decision which did not rub off well with any of the three. Lucius had requested the two in particular, as Jacob's sibling was ostensibly the best student in their year, whilst Merula was the daughter of two of Lucius' former Death Eater colleagues and thus considered the 'right' type of person for Draco to associate with. Draco did not endear himself to either student, however, particularly with his snobbish and disdainful attitude towards them and open displays of prejudice.
During the visit, Draco stole his father's wand, as he was too young to have his own and wanted to perform magic after seeing Merula perform the Jelly-Legs Curse on Jacob's sibling. Lucius initially blamed the theft on their House-elf Dobby, as the perpetrator knew he kept his wand inside his walking stick, which wasn't common knowledge. Jacob's sibling investigated, and returned the wand to Lucius.
When the time came for Draco to attend school in 1991, his father wanted him to attend Durmstrang Institute, a school in Northern Europe that taught the Dark Arts and did not admit Muggle-borns. However, his mother did not like the idea of Draco going to school far away, and Draco had expressed interest in Hogwarts after being impressed by his encounter with Merula. Thus they sent him to Hogwarts.
When Draco went to Diagon Alley to shop for school supplies in 1991, he met Harry Potter in Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions, without knowing who he was. He made a rather intolerant speech about Muggle-borns and Rubeus Hagrid, but otherwise acted in quite a friendly manner towards Harry Potter.
Draco being sorted into Slytherin House
While on the Hogwarts Express for the very first time, Draco Malfoy offered his friendship to Harry Potter as his father believed that Harry was a Dark wizard, and Draco wished to impress him and relay some interesting news home. However, Harry didn't like the attitude Draco expressed towards Ron Weasley, with whom Harry had already made friends, and also found that Draco reminded him of his cousin Dudley, with his disdainful attitude. Thus, he turned him down, creating animosity that lasted through the rest of their schooling.
Once at Hogwarts, Draco was Sorted into the Slytherin House, like many other members of his family. He rapidly formed friendships with fellow Slytherins, while remaining hostile toward Harry to the point of challenging him to a duel, after Harry beat him to Neville Longbottom's Remembrall during their first Flying lesson. This was, in fact, an attempt to get Harry into trouble for being out after curfew. He resented the attention Harry received because of his fame and his prodigious flying ability, which led to Harry being permitted to join his house's Quidditch team at a younger age than most.
Draco in the Forbidden Forest with Harry Potter during their detention
Later in the year, Draco discovered Harry's plan to smuggle Hagrid's pet dragon Norbert out of the castle and informed Professor McGonagall of it, but was put in detention as well for being out past curfew. For his detention, Draco had to assist Hagrid, Harry, and Hermione, who had been caught shortly after smuggling Norbert out, as well as Neville Longbottom, who had tried to warn them about Draco, in finding a wounded unicorn. This was a task he greatly resented because he found it to be 'servants' work'. He and Harry witnessed Voldemort, inhabiting the body of Quirinus Quirrell, drinking the blood of a unicorn and ran away in fear leaving Harry behind.
At the end of the school year, Draco was initially overjoyed that Slytherin was on course to win the House Cup again, but was very dejected to see Gryffindor win the cup once Albus Dumbledore awarded Harry, Ron, Hermione and Neville additional house points for their brave actions.
Draco mocking Harry Potter in Flourish and Blotts
Before the start of his second year, Draco Malfoy was present at Flourish and Blotts the day Harry, the Grangers and the Weasleys were shopping for Gilderoy Lockhart's new Hogwarts textbooks. After Harry was given a free copy of books by Lockhart personally, Draco afterwards approached him to insult him, and after Ginevra Weasley defended him, he mocked her as his girlfriend (unintentionally predicting the future). Draco's father Lucius Malfoy was also present, who met Harry for the first time, and also encountered Arthur Weasley, who he insulted for associating with Muggles, such as the Grangers. Arthur then attacked Lucius in an angry rage, prompting them all to leave the shop.
Draco calling Hermione Granger the derogatory term 'Mudblood'
In his second year at Hogwarts, Draco attained the position of Seeker on the Slytherin Quidditch team. His father bought the entire team new Nimbus 2001s because of this, though Hermione Granger openly speculated that this was in fact what got Draco on the team at all. Draco responded angrily to this accusation, and called Hermione a 'filthy little Mudblood', causing the Gryffindor Quidditch team to lash out at him; Ron tried to curse him to vomit slugs, but the spell backfired due to his broken wand, which Draco and his team found very amusing.
Ironically, Draco was the reason why Slytherin lost to Gryffindor that year in Quidditch, because he was unaware that the Golden Snitch was hovering inches above his own left ear--too busy insulting Harry Potter to notice. Harry took advantage of the lapse in concentration, allowing Gryffindor to win the match and Draco to be reprimanded by the team captain Marcus Flint for his stupidity, which was witnessed by George Weasley.
Draco summoning a snake while duelling Harry Potter
During a meeting of the short-lived Duelling Club that year, Draco duelled Harry Potter. He conjured a snake after being encouraged by Professor Snape and was disappointed when Harry thwarted the attack by speaking to the serpent in Parseltongue. This led many students to suspect that Harry was the Heir of Slytherin, who had opened the Chamber of Secrets and released a 'monster'. This caused Draco to be upset that any one would actually think that 'saint Potter, the Mudbloods' friend' could be the heir of Slytherin, which was something that he thought was completely ridiculous.
Draco unknowingly being interrogated by Harry Potter and Ron Weasley
Harry, Ron, and Hermione suspected that Draco might be the Heir, given his bigoted views on Muggle-borns and his family's tradition of being Sorted into Slytherin House. Hermione brewed Polyjuice Potion in the girls' third floor bathroom so that Harry and Ron were able to disguise themselves as Gregory Goyle and Vincent Crabbe respectively and enter the Slytherin common room. There, Draco unwittingly revealed through conversation that he was not the heir, nor did he know who it was. He did tell them that the Chamber had been opened fifty years ago and that he wished he could help the true heir.
It was, in fact, Draco's own father who had schemed to get the Chamber of Secrets opened by planting an old diary of Tom Riddle's on first-year student Ginny Weasley, though his true target in this plot was her father Arthur. It does not appear that Draco was aware of this, as Lucius's instructions to his son that year were to 'keep his head down'. The diary was a Horcrux, containing a piece of Voldemort's soul, and it was destroyed when Harry stabbed it with a Basilisk fang while in the chamber itself.  When Professor Sprout and Madam Pomfrey were applauded for bringing everyone who was petrified back to their normal ways, Draco did not clap for them, but instead gave them an evil snobbish look.
Draco started off his third year by mocking Harry's reaction to the Dementors that were near Hogwarts that year searching for escaped Azkaban prisoner Sirius Black, despite being terrified of them himself. He also hinted at Black's crimes regarding Harry and his late parents, which Harry was unaware of for some time, and told him that if someone had betrayed and got his parents killed  — as it was believed Black had done to the Potters — he would seek revenge.
Draco showing Pansy Parkinson his injured arm
In a Care of Magical Creatures lesson, Draco unintentionally provoked the Hippogriff Buckbeak, and was injured, though he exaggerated how badly he was hurt for attention, and in an attempt to use the incident against Rubeus Hagrid to get him fired.
During the Quidditch match against Ravenclaw, Draco, Vincent Crabbe, Gregory Goyle, and Marcus Flint attempted to undermine Harry's performance by posing as Dementors — Draco standing on Goyle's shoulders — but they were all knocked over by Harry's first successful automatic Patronus Charm, clearly unaware that it was the effect the Dementors had on Harry that he had a problem with rather than the Dementors themselves. Their attempt to sabotage Harry's performance ended up costing the Slytherin House 50 points.
Hermione punching Draco
When Draco mocked Hagrid for how upset he became over the case, Hermione slapped Draco in anger. Lucius tried to get the creature executed, and although he was successful in obtaining this sentence, Buckbeak was saved through the efforts of Harry and Hermione with the help of a time-turner, and given to Black when his innocence was proven to Harry, Ron and Hermione. This outcome angered both Draco and his father.
Draco with his father at the 1994 Quidditch World Cup
In 1994, Draco attended the 1994 Quidditch World Cup with his parents. They sat in the Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge's luxury box as guests of the Minister, due to Lucius's large donation. He was seated directly behind trio and the Weasleys. He taunted Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger when a group of Death Eaters began terrorising the campers after the game, mocking the Muggles they were tormenting and implying that they would do the same to Hermione because of her Muggle-born status. Harry asked if his father (Lucius Malfoy) was participating in the riot and he responded with 'if they were, I wouldn't be likely to tell you', as the answer was yes. Once on the train to Hogwarts Draco proceeded to mock the trio about their lack of knowledge regarding the upcoming school event.
Draco after unintentionally hitting Hermione with the Densaugeo hex during a short duel with Harry
During his fourth year Hogwarts hosted the Triwizard Tournament, and, much to Draco's dismay and jealousy, Harry was chosen as a champion despite being too young. Draco supported Cedric Diggory, passing out badges that could be made to read Potter Stinks and taunting Harry regularly, such as commenting that he was betting Harry wouldn't last more than a few minutes with the dragons. He was proven wrong when Harry tied with Cedric for first place and succeeded in capturing his golden egg the fastest.
He was also the informer and impetus behind Rita Skeeter writing slanderous, sensationalist articles about Harry, Hagrid and Hermione for the Daily Prophet, due to him knowing that she was an animagus; this assault on Harry's credibility would set the stage for widespread disbelief of Harry's announcement that Lord Voldemort had returned at the end of the school year. Some of the articles that he was partly for was one about Harry and Hermione titled Harry Potter's Secret Heartache.
Barty Crouch Jnr (disguised as Professor Moody) scaring Draco Malfoy by transfiguring him into a ferret
When Draco tried to cast a spell at Harry early in the year behind his back, the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Bartemius Crouch Junior (disguised as Alastor Moody using Polyjuice Potion) transformed Draco into a ferret and bounced him around the room as punishment. Although Professor McGonagall stopped it, Draco was very embarrassed and other students were highly amused; Ron dubbed him 'the Amazing Bouncing Ferret'. Throughout the year, students would tease Draco by telling him that Professor Moody was behind him, causing him to flinch or shudder. Even Hagrid noted that he had heard that Draco had made a good ferret, making Draco not know what to say. At Christmas time, Draco attended the Yule Ball with Pansy Parkinson.
At the end of the year, Draco mocked Harry about his choice to side against Voldemort and also ridiculed Cedric Diggory's death. Before he could finish, however, he was hit by several curses from Harry, Hermione, Ron, and Fred and George Weasley.
In 1995, Draco became a Slytherin prefect along with Pansy Parkinson. He was sure to mock Harry Potter for not receiving the same honour, as Gryffindor's prefects were Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley. He also wrote the lyrics to the demeaning song Weasley is Our King, which mocked Ron's Quidditch abilities as Gryffindor Keeper. It was the invention of this song, as well as insulting Molly and Arthur Weasley and the late Lily Potter to Harry, Fred, and George's faces that prompted Harry and George to get into a fight with Draco. They violently assaulted him, which resulted in the pair (as well as George's twin brother Fred) being banned from all further Quidditch matches, although their bans were later lifted after Dolores Umbridge's sacking from Hogwarts and her being put on suspension for her actions.
Malfoy joining Dolores Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad
Later that year, he joined Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad, and clearly enjoyed the power this gave him over other students. He held this power over Harry and his friends especially. All of the Squad members were Slytherins, as Umbridge was bias and favoured students of her former house. Draco caught Harry running out of the last meeting of Dumbledore's Army, receiving fifty house points, for Slytherin, from Umbridge.
Later, he was among the Inquisitorial Squad members who caught Harry and his friends in their attempt to discover the whereabouts of Sirius Black, whom Harry had seen being tortured in a vision, planted by Lord Voldemort. Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny Weasley, Neville Longbottom, and Luna Lovegood were all brought to Umbridge's office, guarded by the Inquisitorial Squad. Before Umbridge could carry through on her threat to use the Cruciatus Curse to make Harry talk, Hermione told Umbridge that they were trying to contact Albus Dumbledore about a 'weapon' that he planned to use against the Ministry of Magic. Draco had an expression of 'eagerness and greed' at this news that convinced Umbridge not to allow him or any other Squad member to accompany her as she took Harry and Hermione into the Forbidden Forest in search of the alleged weapon.
The Inquisitorial Squad holding several D.A. members hostage for Umbridge
After Umbridge left, the remaining D.A. (Dumbledore's Army) members used a litany of Stunning Spells and Disarming Charms to escape the office; Draco was hit by Ginny's Bat-Bogey Hex. It was soon revealed that Hermione had been lying about a weapon; Umbridge was carried off by centaurs and the six D.A. members flew to the Ministry, where the Battle of the Department of Mysteries ensued.
Draco's father was seen participating in the battle as a Death Eater and was imprisoned in Azkaban for his crimes. Draco was very upset by this, and mainly blamed Harry, swearing vengeance and attempting to attack him at the end of the school year with the help of Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle. However, other D.A. members came to Harry's defence, resulting in Draco, Crabbe, and Goyle ending up looking like ugly slug-like things after being hit by a number of hexes by all D.A. Members at the same time.
Draco talking to Pansy Parkinson and Blaise Zabini on the Hogwarts Express about his mission from Voldemort
By late 1996, Draco joined the Death Eaters, having replaced his incarcerated father. He bragged about having been given a mission to his fellow Slytherin students on his way to school on the Hogwarts Express. However, as the year dragged on, Draco became increasingly afraid that he would fail in his seemingly impossible task — to kill Albus Dumbledore. It is implied that Draco was expected to fail and that Voldemort assigned him the task with the intention of punishing Lucius Malfoy for his failure at the Department of Mysteries. The safety of his family rested on Draco's success with his mission. When Harry overhead some parts of Draco's conversation with his fellow Slytherins about the mission, Draco used a Full Body-Bind Curse to paralyse Harry and stomped hard on his face, crushing his nose, in revenge for imprisoning his father, Lucius, causing Harry to hate Draco more than ever, while disregarding what Harry heard as not important enough to condemn him.
Draco planned to repair a Vanishing Cabinet that Peeves had destroyed four years previously, in order to smuggle Death Eaters into Hogwarts to assist him in killing Dumbledore. In his previous year at Hogwarts a fellow Slytherin, Graham Montague, had been forced into it by the Weasley twins and later managed to apparate out as a last resort to free himself from the limbo-like space into which he had vanished. Montague told Draco that during his time trapped in limbo, he could hear the sounds entering the cabinet from the school, as well as the sounds entering the cabinet's twin in Borgin and Burkes. Draco realised from this that if the broken one was repaired, the cabinets could act as a passageway into the school.
Draco preparing to enter Borgin and Burkes, wanting to question Borgin
During the summer break between his fifth and sixth year, Draco questioned Borgin, the owner of Borgin and Burkes, on repairing the cabinet and ordered him to keep the other one safe. As a proof of his allegiance to Lord Voldemort, Draco showed Borgin the Dark Mark now branded on his arm whilst threatening to set Fenrir Greyback to attack the shop-owner, should he disobey his commands. This meeting was also overheard by Harry, Hermione, and Ron, but while Harry started to suspect Draco of Death Eater activities, Ron and Hermione dismissed such possibilities, and believed Draco was merely bluffing, a choice that they would much later regret.
In preparation for such a dangerous mission, Draco trained and improved his own skills, and became capable of blocking jinxes nonverbally. He also became accomplished at Occlumency through the training of his maternal aunt Bellatrix Lestrange, and was able to perform the very difficult Protean Charm, though he could not yet produce a corporeal Patronus.
Draco standing in front of the broken Vanishing Cabinet
In focus for his mission of fixing the Vanishing Cabinet, Draco experienced many visible changes in his life. He seemed to have lost interest in Quidditch, and allowed (and possibly paid) Harper to take over instead. He was also becoming more neglectful in his school-work, as he missed two Transfiguration homework assignments and received detention, as well as not attending to his prefect duties, which he would usually happily abuse as he did in the previous year. Another change was that he no longer trusted Snape and was willing to speak ill towards him point-blank, no respect.
Socially, Draco forced Crabbe and Goyle to assume the forms of other people with Polyjuice Potion, to help him keep watch outside the Room of Requirement, while refusing to tell them anything, and seemingly to distance himself from them. Draco also spent less time mocking Harry and his friends, despite the many opportunities. Even his physical appearance showed the stress, with greying skin, weight loss and bags under his eyes. Most of this frustrated Harry, who was unable to discover exactly what Draco was up to despite his persistence and effort.
Draco beginning to feel the strain of life as a Death Eater
Twice during the school year he feared he would be unable to repair the cabinet, and resorted to desperate assassination attempts, such as trying to smuggle in a cursed necklace and trying to send Dumbledore poisoned mead. Both these attempts failed and resulted in innocent people getting injured, though since they both survived Dumbledore was not forced to apprehend Draco. The stress began to affect Draco adversely, and he confessed his fears to Myrtle Warren, one of the school's ghosts. On one such occasion, Harry stumbled on him. Draco reacted by starting to cast the Cruciatus Curse, but Harry sliced his skin open with his wand right before he could complete the incantation. Draco was hospitalised and Harry was given detention by Snape for every Saturday until the end of term.
Harry nearly killing Draco with one of Snape's spells
Eventually, through copious amounts of work Draco managed to repair the Vanishing Cabinet and used it to let at least six Death Eaters into the castle: Corban Yaxley, Alecto Carrow, Amycus Carrow, Gibbon, Thorfinn Rowle, and the vicious werewolf Fenrir Greyback. Proceeding to the top of the Astronomy Tower, Draco was able to corner a significantly weaker Dumbledore, disarming the latter the same instant he had, unknown to Draco, bound Harry Potter with a Full Body-Bind Curse. It was also at the moment when he disarmed Dumbledore that he unknowingly gained the allegiance of the Elder Wand, one of the three Deathly Hallows.
However, when Draco was finally given the opportunity to kill Dumbledore, who had just expressed his willingness to protect Draco and his family were they to 'come over to the right side', he could not bring himself to commit murder; considering that they spent the few minutes of alone time to discuss how Draco smuggled his accomplices into the castle, Dumbledore concluded that Draco would find committing murder impossible. As predicted, Draco ultimately was unable to do it, instead lowering his wand. Snape, who had made an Unbreakable Vow with Narcissa to step in if Draco failed in his task, used the Killing Curse on the Headmaster. Snape then promptly led Draco out of the school grounds, presumably to safety, but really to get to a safe distance to disapparate to Lord Voldemort.
Draco disarming Albus Dumbledore on top of the Astronomy Tower
After the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, Draco could no longer return to Hogwarts, as he was an accomplice, however reluctantly, in the revered Albus Dumbledore's murder, mainly by being the one who let Death Eaters penetrate the castle's walls. The official criminal status placed on him, alongside his fear of the Dark Lord's wrath, led him to seek refuge, along with his family, with Voldemort, in the hopes of satisfying his orders to prevent any more negative highlights.
His abrupt departure from the school left Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle surprisingly lonely, despite the two being hulking boys, as Harry described during Dumbledore's funeral.
Draco ambiguously recognising Harry when he was brought to Lord Voldemort's headquarters by Snatchers
Draco reluctantly participated in Death Eater activities before the beginning of the 1997–1998 school year. Due to Draco's helpful role in Dumbledore's death, Voldemort liberated Lucius from Azkaban. He witnessed the murder of Charity Burbage and tortured Thorfinn Rowle on Lord Voldemort's orders. Judging by later remarks made by Vincent Crabbe, it seems that the Malfoys had lost much of their influence in the Death Eater circles. This is due to Voldemort no longer holding Lucius in high esteem and shifting his favour to Draco's maternal aunt Bellatrix Lestrange and Hogwarts teacher Severus Snape. When Thorfinn Rowle and Antonin Dolohov failed to capture Harry, Voldemort forced Draco to torture them via the Cruciatus Curse as punishment, with the threat of Voldemort's wrath if Draco failed to comply. Harry, who saw this scene via his mental link with Voldemort, was disgusted at what the Dark Lord was forcing the young Death Eater to commit.
Draco attended his seventh year of Hogwarts that year. During the Easter holidays, Draco was seen at home in Malfoy Manor. He was called upon by his parents and aunt Bellatrix Lestrange to confirm the identities of Harry, Ron and Hermione, who were caught by a group of Snatchers led by Fenrir Greyback, but Draco showed great hesitation in doing so. When Hermione lied to Bellatrix under torture about Godric Gryffindor's Sword, Draco was sent to fetch the goblin, Griphook, from the dungeons to get confirmation of the story, which he did by lying saying it was a fake, but the truth was it was the true sword. Later in the evening, the prisoners managed to escape, and Draco's wand was taken by Harry. Afterwards, Draco and his family were detained to the Manor by Lord Voldemort. Narcissa would lend Draco her wand; it was powerful, yet it didn't 'understand' him, as he had not won its loyalty.
Draco with his parents during the second-half of the Battle of Hogwarts
Later that same year, during the Battle of Hogwarts, Draco, along with Crabbe and Goyle, chose to remain in the school as their fellow Slytherins evacuated in order to bring Harry Potter to Lord Voldemort. Given Lucius' previous remarks alluding to 'forgiveness', it is likely that Draco was doing this in an attempt to redeem his family in Voldemort's eyes. He along with Crabbe and Goyle followed the Trio into the Room of Requirement where he would attempt to capture Harry and retrieve the item Harry was trying to locate. However, he no longer exercised the same degree of control over his friends, particularly Crabbe, that he once had.
Harry saving Draco from Fiendfyre in the Room of Requirement
Despite Draco telling his friends that Harry was to be brought back alive, Crabbe attempted to kill him by conjuring Fiendfyre. Since Crabbe was unable to control the curse, the Room of Requirement quickly filled with fire. Draco went out of his way to try to save both of his friends, but he only managed to get Goyle, who had been stunned by Hermione during the fight, onto Ron and Hermione's broom before he let Harry fly them out. Crabbe was killed in the fire, leaving Draco very upset.
Harry, Hermione, and Ron later spotted Draco pleading with a Death Eater that he was on his side. Harry stunned the Death Eater and Ron punched Draco and called him a 'two-faced bastard', as this was the second time they saved his life that night.
Although Draco was unaware of this, his act in disarming Dumbledore before his death and mastering the Elder Wand ultimately resulted in the Dark Lord's final defeat at the hands of Harry. This is due to the fact that Voldemort was unable to fully understand the Elder Wand's power and Harry disarming Draco of his wand resulted in him mastering the Elder Wand himself.
After Voldemort's defeat, Draco and his parents sat in the Great Hall, looking uncertain of their place during the victory celebrations.
Draco with his wife and son in 2017
The events of Draco's teenage years forever changed his life. He had the beliefs in which he had grown up challenged in the most frightening way, had experienced terror and despair, witnessed his parents suffering for their allegiance, and had witnessed the crumbling of all that his family had believed in.
Draco and his family avoided imprisonment in Azkaban due to their last-minute switch in allegiance. Lucius found his son as affectionate as ever, but refusing to follow the old pure-blood line.
Draco eventually married Astoria Greengrass, the younger sister of fellow Slytherin classmate Daphne Greengrass, who had gone through a similar (though less violent and frightening) conversion from pure-blood ideals to a more accepting and tolerant way of life. This was something of a disappointment for Lucius and Narcissa, who had higher hopes of someone whose family featured on the 'Sacred Twenty-Eight'.
Draco with his son Scorpius
The two had a son together, named Scorpius Malfoy, who was raised by his mother not to believe that Muggles and Muggle-borns were scum; as such, family gatherings were fraught with tension. Draco raised Scorpius to be a much kinder and more accepting Malfoy than he was in his youth.
On 1 September 2017 while sending his son off for his first year at Hogwarts, Draco greeted Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny at King's Cross Station with a curt nod. The relationship between Harry and Draco was much better than it had been when they were students together, but they were still not considered to be anything at all near friends.
Independently wealthy without any need to work, Draco inhabited Malfoy Manor with his wife and son. His hobbies — which included keeping the family's old collection of Dark artefacts (which he did not use and kept in glass cases) and studying alchemical manuscripts — were indications of his dual nature, and hint at a desire for something more than wealth.
Draco also teamed up with his former enemies to fight Delphini at St Jerome's Church in order to stop her from preventing Lord Voldemort's death.
Draco Malfoy
Draco was a slender boy with sleek white-blond hair, cold grey eyes, a pale complexion and rather sharp, pointed features. He was described to have haughty good looks. As an older man, his hairline was receding, making his features look even more pointed. In his first and second years his hair was slicked tightly back. Draco was noted to strongly resemble his father throughout his life. When Draco joined the Death Eaters, Lord Voldemort had the Dark Mark burned into his left forearm, which has since faded to a mere scar upon Voldemort's death.
During the first five years of school Draco maintained a relatively healthy look. However, in his sixth year onward, when the stress of his mission was getting more intense, Draco's smug countenance was lost, and he became quite thin, with dark shadows under his eyes and a greyish tinge to his skin.
As an adult, Draco let his hair grow long and started wearing it in a precisely placed ponytail.
Draco's arrogant demeanour
Draco was, in general, an arrogant, spiteful bully for most of his early years. Like Dudley Dursley, his narcissistic nature most likely stemmed from his being spoiled by his parents throughout his childhood, though according to Harry himself, Draco was even less sympathetic than his cousin. He believed himself superior to most people because of his family's pure-blood lineage as well as great wealth and social standing. He frequently behaved cruelly to Muggle-borns, blood traitors, Gryffindor students, and anyone who was a supporter of Harry Potter or Albus Dumbledore. For much of his youth, Draco took after his bigoted father, Lucius Malfoy, as a role model, and frequently boasted about his family's influence and wealth.
Draco was intelligent, cunning and quick-witted, capable of deducing things and coming up with clever plans based on a small amount of information; his father had expected him to obtain top marks in school after his first year, and showed disappointment that Hermione beat him. He figured out through Montague's experience that the Vanishing Cabinets in Hogwarts and Borgin and Burkes were linked and that he could use that passage to his advantage. However, his plans could have limitations based on his own arrogance when dealing with people. When he attempted to sabotage Harry during the Gryffindor-Ravenclaw Quidditch match in their third year, his whole plan was based solely around the idea that the Dementors' appearance scared Harry, ignorant of the fact that it was the effect the Dementors had on him that caused Harry problems. Draco was also adept at compartmentalising his emotions, as is evidenced in his success with Occlumency.
Draco in his sixth year
However, something began to change in Draco's psyche in his sixth year at Hogwarts. After Lord Voldemort made him a Death Eater, he gave Draco the task of assassinating Albus Dumbledore by the end of the year, something that Draco was very eager to do at first. After a number of feeble attempts, Draco began to crack under the enormous pressure that Voldemort was putting on him. He was uncertain of his ability to fulfil the mission and was terrified that he and his family would pay the price for his failure; the stress led him to be reckless as his two feeble attempts were noted to be foolish by Snape, and he attempted a Cruciatus Curse on Harry, despite the consequences of a life sentence in Azkaban.
Over the course of the year, the mission also led Draco to neglect other aspects of his school life that he would previously have abused or enjoyed: he rejected his Prefect duties that he once would happily abuse; he feigned illness and paid another student to take over his stead in order to avoid playing Quidditch himself, as opposed to three years earlier when he would ensure the entire match was postponed by exaggerating a minor injury in order to suit the team's interest; he missed two Transfiguration homework assignments; he would distance himself from his friends Crabbe and Goyle and order them to be on lookout without telling them anything; and he would also spend less time mocking Harry and his friends despite the many opportunities. Ultimately, Draco was unable to kill Dumbledore, lowering his wand and being tempted to take Dumbledore's offer of protection for his parents.
For the rest of the Second Wizarding War, Draco became disillusioned by the Death Eater lifestyle. He reluctantly participated in Death Eater activities and by the end of the war, remained on the fence. When Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger were captured in his home, Draco showed great hesitation in identifying them before the Death Eaters. Also, during the Battle of Hogwarts, he showed genuine concern for Crabbe and Goyle, something he rarely did.
By the time Draco become an adult, he had became a noticeably changed man, due to his regret over joining the Death Eaters and the vile deeds he had to perform, even if only limited compared to his parents, and any of his old bigotry was lost, refusing to follow in line with the old pure-blood beliefs after having seen first-hand what happened to him and his parents for that. Due to this, he fell deeply in love with Astoria Malfoy despite the disappointments of his parents over her failing to meet their hopes of someone from one of the Sacred Twenty-Eight. As a husband, Draco was very loving and devoted and was even fully willing to let the Malfoy bloodline end to protect her from her family's curse as it made childbirth dangerous and detrimental to her health, which he maintained even despite Lucius's dislike, only relenting after Astoria said she wanted to leave behind a child for him and not for family beliefs. His wisdom shone by the fact that even though the temptation of using his family's secret Time Turner to see his wife just for one more minute was admittedly great, his respect for her desires and memory were too great to risk jeopardising the timeline for his beloved, showing how deeply Draco had fallen in love with her, as even though he had the power to alter time to be with her, he was able to, even if barely, resist such overwhelming temptation, showing how much his character had changed by the age of forty.
Although Scorpius's birth would cause Astoria's death, Draco's love for his son was clearly great, considering the day he was born the greatest day of his life. Having seen how his parents spoiled him had caused him to become such a horrible man in his younger days, Draco strove to do better and henceforth he raised his son to be a better person. He did not let his histories with Harry, Ron and Hermione hamper his judgement towards Scorpius's bond with Albus Potter and crush on Rose Granger-Weasley, children of his former rivals, fully supporting his son instead. His love for Scorpius was shown by how he showed no hesitation to give any Malfoy Family objects to his rivals if it would help in his son being found. In fact, he actually trusted Albus greatly, as he allowed him to connect with Scorpius when he couldn't after Astoria died, and genuinely care for the boy for what he meant to his son. Draco even went as far as to protest to Harry for having made Albus distant from Scorpius, showing how much he valued the friendship between Albus and Scorpius. Draco was more strict with Scorpius than his parents were to him, accepting that his son must be punished for having brought the wizarding world back to the times where Voldemort was in power.
His personal relationships with his old school rivals has also changed from antagonistic to being civil and tolerating. While he continued to mock Harry's friends for them only being so popular because of Harry and didn't trust them fully with matters regarding his son, as he gave a cold reply letter to Ginny's offer to having Scorpius stay in the Potter House, particularly being enraged at them for the rumours that Scorpius was Voldemort's son, he was more than willing to team up with Harry, Ron and Hermione to save both Albus and Scorpius and worked with them effectively to dispatch Delphini, despite her being the daughter of Voldemort and his aunt Bellatrix. This defiance of Delphini showed that even having the Dark Lord's daughter being a blood relative was a repugnant notion to Draco, wanting little to do with his Death Eater past, further shown by how he would attend and help his rivals in defeating what remained of the forces of darkness. By this time, Draco also began referring to Voldemort by his name rather than the 'Dark Lord' as he did in his youth due to his self-redemption.
Draco had came to trust the luck and instincts of both Harry and Hermione, taking the orders of the Minister For Magic without hesitation, even expressing he was impressed with her battle commands, albeit in a mildly amused manner, acknowledging Harry was always ready to solve the thickest of situations, and he even went as far as to confess to Harry that he never truly craved power like his father and that his ambition was actually to become a star Quidditch player, but he wasn't good enough, and mainly he just wanted to be happy along with the truth of Astoria's death, and his envy of Harry's friendships, as he only ever had Crabbe and Goyle, outright acknowledging Harry as a friend and showing respect for him, which was mutually returned by Harry.
Draco was a powerful and talented wizard from a young age and possessed several impressive magical abilities. His wand was made of hawthorn, which one should only ever consider placing in the hands of a witch or wizard of proven talent. Following his training from his aunt Bellatrix Lestrange, Draco grew to be an accomplished wizard for his age.
Draco attending a first-year Potions class
Draco in his Quidditch robes
Draco duelling Harry and Ron during the Skirmish at Malfoy Manor
Draco Malfoy duelling Harry Potter in 1992
Draco casting the Snake Summons Spell in 1992
Draco making a paper plane fly
Draco attempting to curse Harry Potter
Draco's hawthorn wand
Lucius and Draco in 1997
Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy both spoiled their only child. In 1991, Narcissa sent packages of sweets daily to her son. In 1992, Lucius bought broomsticks for the entire Slytherin Quidditch team when Draco was made Seeker, and Narcissa often sent care packages to her son. She also refused to send Draco abroad to Durmstrang Institute, as Lucius originally wanted, insisting he stay closer to home by attending Hogwarts, despite Lucius's desire to keep Draco away from the influence of Muggle-borns in Hogwarts and also because Durmstrang Institute was known to teach dark arts rather than just the defences which was why Lucius Malfoy had wanted Draco a place in that school, but, finally fulfilling Narcissa's wish for him to study somewhere not too far from home.
Lucius was colder and more demanding than his wife, criticising his son for getting lower school marks than Hermione Granger who was Muggle-born. Despite this, Draco greatly admired his father, often boasting about his influence and striving to be like him. Also, as Draco attempted to use his grandfather's name, Abraxas, to charm Horace Slughorn, Draco may have had a similar level of respect for his grandfather as for his parents.
Narcissa Malfoy, Draco's mother
It became clear during the Second Wizarding War that the Malfoys cared about one another more than they cared for following Lord Voldemort. Draco carried out the task he was assigned by Voldemort in his sixth year because his parents' lives were threatened, and appeared to be close to accepting Dumbledore's offer to keep them safe before Severus Snape interceded to kill the Headmaster. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Lucius and Narcissa did not even attempt to fight, instead frantically searching for their son. Narcissa went so far as to lie directly to Voldemort about Harry Potter being dead, in order to be allowed to return to Hogwarts and search for Draco, which also follows the saying that Harry Potter had been saved by a mother's love more than once.
Like his parents, Draco possesses the formidable skill of duelling, Occlumency, and the Cruciatus and Imperius Curses and is smart, quick and a smart retorter.
However, after the war, Draco's relationship with his parents may have somewhat faltered, as his marriage with Astoria led them to think she is a somewhat disappointing daughter-in-law, mainly because Astoria's change of belief after the atrocities brought by Death Eaters' ideology, something they find unfitting for a fellow member of one of the Sacred Twenty-Eight clans. Draco himself has lost his bigotry for less-than-pure wizards, and his willingness to let the Malfoy bloodline end at himself in order to preserve Astoria's health due to her blood-bourne curse earned Lucius' dislike. Regardless, he did not lose favour of his parents, as he inherited the Malfoy Manor and Lucius' collection of artefacts (which included the 'true' Time-Turner that proved instrumental later).
Draco with his wife and son
Sometime after the end of the war, Draco married Astoria Greengrass, whose older sister was in the same year as him at Hogwarts. They eventually had a son named Scorpius.
Draco and his wife evidently loved and cared for their son, raising him to be a better person than himself, proven when Scorpius has a crush on Rose Granger-Weasley (daughter of Draco's former rivals) and is best friend of Albus Potter (youngest son of Draco's former arch-rival) he and his wife considered the day their son was born the best day of their lives. Astoria's death has caused Draco to be heartbroken, and he even considered using the illegal 'true' Time-Turner he received from his father as a means to see her again, though he barely resisted the urge. Draco would have gladly let the Malfoy family line end with him if it were to preserve Astoria's health, disregarding Lucius' wishes, but Astoria did want to leave behind someone for her husband, not for the sake of family beliefs. Draco certainly raised Scorpius more strictly than how Lucius and Narcissa raised him, as when Scorpius was to be punished by Minerva McGonagall for utilising the Time-Turner to corrupt reality to the point of reviving Voldemort, Draco stated he was prepared to listen to how his son is to be punished.
Bellatrix Lestrange, his maternal aunt
Bellatrix Lestrange was Draco's maternal aunt, being the sister of Narcissa. When Draco was younger he didn't have much contact with his aunt because she was imprisoned in Azkaban for torturing the Aurors Alice and Frank Longbottom (who were the parents of Neville Longbottom, a Gryffindor in the same year at Hogwarts as Draco), into insanity. However, Draco did not feel any shame in his aunt's crimes against the wizarding world law that many would label as disgraceful. After Bellatrix escaped in Draco's fifth year at Hogwarts, she fought in a battle against Harry Potter and his friends and was the only Death Eater who wasn't captured; Draco's father, who had also fought, was imprisoned. After Draco was given a mission as a Death Eater, Bellatrix helped him and taught him Occlumency, nonverbal spells, and the Dark Arts. She also thought that Narcissa should be proud that her son became a Death Eater.
In 1997, Bellatrix lived for some months at Malfoy Manor, to be closer to Voldemort, who was also staying there. Bellatrix and Draco both participated in the Skirmish at Malfoy Manor; Draco reluctantly watched Bellatrix's torturing of Hermione Granger. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Bellatrix was killed by Molly Weasley.
It is unknown how Draco reacted to her death, but it is likely he may have felt sadness as Bellatrix seemed to have some affection with Draco. However, given that Draco and his family regretted their allegiance with Voldemort, and that Draco abandoned his prejudice against non-pure bloods after the war, it is possible his opinion on Bellatrix changed considerably as she was fanatically loyal to, and obsessively in love with, Voldemort. Also, despite Delphini being Bellatrix's daughter, Draco did not hesitate to assist in her arrest after she had threatened his son's life.
Nymphadora Tonks, his maternal first cousin
Draco was not close to his aunt Andromeda Tonks, who had been disowned for marrying Muggle-born Ted Tonks, or their daughter, his cousin Nymphadora. Like much of the rest of his family, Draco likely held these relatives in contempt; Andromeda was considered a blood traitor and Tonks was a half-blood. In addition, Tonks had married Remus Lupin, a werewolf, which the Death Eaters scorned to humiliate Draco. Since Draco was too scared of Voldemort to respond, his feelings on the subject are unknown. Tonks referred to him as 'The Malfoy boy', indicating she either did not know his name or despised him too much to care. Neither so much as mentioned their relation to one another. Similarly, Draco was indifferent to his first cousin once removed, Sirius Black.
Sirius Black, his maternal first cousin, once removed
Both cousins were killed by Bellatrix, Sirius in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and Tonks in the Battle of Hogwarts respectively. His cousin, the illegitimate child of Bellatrix Lestrange, his aunt, and Tom Riddle, his former leader, was Delphini, whom he helped Harry Potter fight in the year 2020, after discovering she was Voldemort's daughter, and after she tried to kill his son Scorpius. He did not have any love for Delphi, as he assisted arresting her for the murder of Craig Bowker Jnr.
Draco Malfoy and his cohorts
Draco's two constant companions throughout his Hogwarts years were Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle. Crabbe and Goyle were often involved in Draco's confrontations with Harry Potter and his friends. Though Draco often made it clear that he considered both of them rather stupid — a legitimate claim — and treated them more like lackeys than friends, he showed genuine concern for them and the rest of his gang on a few occasions; when Goyle was bitten by Scabbers the Rat, Draco waited for Goyle before leaving, and he also showed concern for Goyle when he was hit by Harry's Curse, when Dumbledore expressed his disgust with Draco for allowing Fenrir Greyback 'into the school where his friends live,' Draco denied knowing he would be there, clearly disturbed by the sadistic werewolf's unexpected presence. Draco's abrupt departure from his criminal activities left Crabbe and Goyle looking oddly lonely to Harry, as Harry was used to seeing Draco in between the two hulking boys, bossing them around.
By the final confrontation between Draco and Harry in the Room of Requirement, during the Battle of Hogwarts, Draco no longer exerted much control over his friends; Crabbe, in particular, responded harshly to Draco's attempts to prevent them from killing Harry. Draco tried desperately to save both of his friends from the cursed fire Crabbe unleashed, helping pull Goyle onto Ron and Hermione's broom before letting Harry fly the two of them out, and was very upset by Crabbe's death. Although it was Ron and Hermione who saved Goyle from falling into the fire, if it wasn't for Draco who dragged Goyle to safety, Ron and Hermione would never had saved Goyle, so it can be considered that Draco saved Goyle's life.
In 2020, an adult Draco admitted to Harry and his wife that his relationship with Crabbe and Goyle could never really have been called friendship, as they had little in common except the prejudices they had inherited from their families, and Crabbe and Goyle were far too stupid to be reliable cohorts in much.  Draco also admitted that he had always envied Harry's close friendship with Ron and Hermione, in stark contrast to the emptiness of his relationship with his two 'best friends' at Hogwarts.
Pansy Parkinson, his friend who had a crush on him
Pansy Parkinson, a Slytherin girl in Draco's year, was a close friend of Draco's at Hogwarts. She often fawned over him, laughing loudly at his snide jokes, showing great concern when Draco was injured by Buckbeak in their third year, and accompanying him to the Yule Ball in 1994. Draco and Pansy were both members of the Inquisitorial Squad and Prefects in their fifth year, which is indicative of their leadership roles in Slytherin House. They are noted as being particularly cosy in their sixth year at Hogwarts, seen in the Hogwarts Express with Draco's head in Pansy's lap, Pansy stroking Draco's hair, and wasted no time in vilifying Harry for (unintentionally) slashing Draco with a deadly curse. Sometime after this period, however, Pansy and Draco's friendship waned. Whether she was ever his girlfriend is unknown, but Draco eventually married Astoria Greengrass.
Draco was also friends with Theodore Nott, one of the few people whom he considered an equal, given that Theodore was just as pure-blooded and somewhat cleverer than him. However, Theodore was a solitary person who did not feel compelled to join any gang, including Draco's. Theodore and Draco did laugh together at Hermione's blood-status once, and Nott was also seen with Draco and his gang after Harry listed their fathers names in a Quibbler article. It is also said that they had known each other prior to their arrival at Hogwarts.
He was also friends with Blaise Zabini during their sixth year, as they sat together at Hogwarts Express, where they discussed Harry Potter, Neville Longbottom, and Ginny Weasley, who had all become members of the Slug Club. Blaise was also one of the few people Draco had told about his mission, however he didn't seem to think highly of Draco's new position.
Draco also appeared to be friendly with Marcus Flint, as shown when Flint defended Draco against Fred and George Weasley, and again when he assisted Draco and his gang in their attempts to psych Harry out during a Quidditch game by disguising as dementors. Flint however did not hesitate to shout at Draco after he failed to catch a snitch despite it flying within his reach (he was too busy making fun of Harry to notice).
Severus Snape, his favourite teacher and former head of house
The teacher Draco initially respected the most was Severus Snape, Potions Master and Head of Slytherin House. Snape, in turn, took Draco as his favourite student and showed him undeserved lenience on several occasions, which likely had something to do with Snape's long-time comradeship with Draco's father, or on the pretext of it, given that Snape defected from the Death Eaters. Draco even stated that Snape should apply for the position of Headmaster, after Dumbledore was suspended.
However, after Lucius's imprisonment in Azkaban, Draco came to resent and mistrust Snape, believing him to have usurped his father's place in the ranks of the Death Eaters, and that he was trying to take Draco's chance of glory as well. As such, Draco avoided Snape most of the year, refused any assistance, and even verbally assaulted him. However, Snape continued to protect him as when Draco was caught lurking outside of Professor Slughorn's Christmas party, and did not punish Draco when the boy refused to answer his summons to the office, something other students would not get off with so easily and which Draco took advantage of. Snape continued to protect Draco even after they fled from the Battle of the Astronomy Tower together; when questioned by Voldemort about Draco's actions during his attempted murder of Dumbledore, Snape lied and told the Dark Lord that Malfoy hadn't lowered his wand and emphasised the young student's ability to get Death Eaters into Hogwarts as well as cornering Dumbledore, which allowed Snape to kill him. Snape's defence of Malfoy saved the boy's life and convinced Voldemort to free Lucius Malfoy from Azkaban, for which Draco reconciled with Snape.
It is unknown how Draco reacted when he learned about Snape's death by Lord Voldemort in 1998, during the Battle of Hogwarts, or of his true loyalty to the Order of the Phoenix due to his love for the Muggle-born mother of Harry Potter, Lily Evans. However, given Draco's own disillusionment with the Death Eater cause and subsequent rapprochement with Harry, it is likely that Draco came to sympathise with his late teacher. In addition, it is possible that Draco's aforementioned detente with Harry as adults might have been motivated, at least in part, to avoid having a similar relationship that Snape had with Harry's father and his friends after their own Hogwarts years.
Harry Potter, his school rival and enemy turned ally and later friend
Draco became Harry Potter's arch-rival almost immediately after they met, just before their first year at Hogwarts. Draco was at first interested in Harry because he was so famous, but Harry was unimpressed by his arrogant manner. For the rest of their time at school, Harry and Draco loathed each other and tried to one up each other whenever possible, although Harry compared to Ron was less prone to incorporating violence on Draco. This reached its pinnacle after Lucius Malfoy was sent to Azkaban following the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.
After finding out what Draco had gone through during their sixth year, Harry began to feel somewhat sorry for him, a feeling intensified by witnessing the use to which Lord Voldemort was putting him. During that year, Harry nearly killed Draco with the Half-Blood Prince's curse Sectumsempra (which he used by accident, unaware of what the effects of the curse were). Harry himself felt utterly horrified and guilty at what he did. However, despite their enmity towards each other, Draco showed great reluctance in identifying Harry and his friends when they were imprisoned in his home. In turn, Harry saved his life twice during the Battle of Hogwarts. The main reason behind Draco's enmity towards Harry was Draco's jealousy of Harry.
Over the years, Draco and Harry made their peace as adults, but still were not friends by the time Scorpius and Albus started school. This later developed into a more cordial relationship due to Scorpius and Albus being best friends. Draco would grow to trust Harry's luck and instincts over the years, and knew that Harry was always in the thick of the action when it was necessary. Draco would grow to have a deep respect and friendly relationship with Albus Potter and trusted him with helping Scorpius heal from the grief of losing his mother. During the Delphini crisis, Draco would come to confess much to Harry, discussing at first in a rather distant manner, but upon revealing key details about his wife prior to and after her death as well as his family's hidden Time Turner, Draco and Harry finally came to a mutual respect for one another, and saw each other as friends for the first time, though it still did not heal everything in spite of many confessions. Draco even admitted that he had always envied Harry, Ron, and Hermione's friendship.
Draco was first cousins, twice removed, with at least one member of the Potter family, through the Black family. It is almost certain that the said Potter was related to Harry, but it is unknown whether Harry and Draco were aware of it.
The Weasley family (excluding Bill and Charlie)
The Malfoy family generally looked down upon the Weasley family for their lack of wealth and 'blood traitor' status, a sentiment Draco made clear immediately upon meeting Ron Weasley on the train to Hogwarts for their first year. He and Ron had a hostility that mirrored that of their fathers, often insulting one another and prone even to physical fights at times. Draco also wrote the lyrics to the demeaning song Weasley is Our King, which was meant to undermine Ron's abilities as a Keeper for the Gryffindor Quidditch team.
When Crabbe set the Room of Requirement on fire, Ron assisted Harry and Hermione in pulling Draco and Goyle away, but with some reluctance. When he and his friends saved Draco again later that night from a Death Eater Draco was pleading with, Ron punched him in the face and called him a 'two-faced bastard'. Although this enmity seems to have faded with age, Ron discouraged his daughter Rose from becoming friends with Draco's son, Scorpius.
Draco had less interaction with other members of the Weasley family. Fred and George Weasley attempted twice to physically assault Draco; The first time was when he called Hermione Granger a 'filthy little Mudblood' and the second time after Draco insulted their mother and father, as well as Harry Potter's mother, Lily Evans (earning both twins, as well as Harry, a 'lifetime Quidditch ban' from Dolores Umbridge) and made sure to hex Draco, along with other members of the Inquisitorial Squad, when they left Hogwarts. Ginny also had a few hostile encounters with Draco, most notably hitting him with a Bat-Bogey Hex when the Inquisitorial Squad tried to hold her, Ron, Neville Longbottom, and Luna Lovegood in 1996. Draco also appeared to dislike Percy and showed no respect towards him despite the latter being a prefect.
Hermione Granger, his former enemy and whom he used to bully
Draco's relationship with Hermione Granger was coloured before the two even met, although they never actually interacted until their second year. Draco was raised to believe in the inferiority of Muggle-borns, and by his second year, his father had told him he should be ashamed that Hermione beat him in all of his school marks. Thus, Draco often taunted Hermione, calling her the derogatory epithet 'Mudblood', but she refused to ever be bullied. During the period when Salazar Slytherin's Basilisk from the Chamber of Secrets was attacking Muggle-born students, Malfoy told his friends Crabbe and Goyle (really Harry and Ron using Polyjuice Potion) in the Slytherin common room that he hoped Granger would be the next victim. Although Hermione generally ignored Draco's taunts rather than getting into fights with him like Harry and Ron, occasionally the two would exchange sharp words and, in their third year, Hermione even slapped him for insulting Hagrid. When he encountered the trio in Madam Malkin's before the start of their sixth year, he asked who had given Hermione a black eye (the result of a boxing telescope) so that he could 'send them flowers'. Despite his dislike for and prejudice towards Hermione, Draco still advised Ron and Harry to get her to safety during the Death Eater riot at the Quidditch World Cup (albeit in a taunting manner) and demonstrated reluctance to identify her to his aunt Bellatrix, avoiding even looking at her.
In 2017, when Ron encouraged their daughter not to associate with Draco's son, Hermione expressed a more conciliatory attitude. Draco and Hermione became third cousins, once removed in law when Hermione married Ron Weasley. Draco's son Scorpius would eventually develop a deep crush and even fall in love with Hermione's daughter, Rose Granger-Weasley. Although their relationship slightly improved after the war, Draco quipped a few times during the ambush of Delphini in Godric's Hollow on 31st October 1981, that he was both astounded and mildly enjoying taking battle commands from Hermione, finding the situation darkly amusing.
Neville Longbottom, his former enemy and whom he used to bully
The initially shy and clumsy Neville regularly found himself on the receiving end of insults from Draco and his gang, and was often the butt of their jokes and pranks -- a fact which served only to make Neville clumsier and less confident. Encouraged by Hermione, Ron, and Harry to stand up for himself, Neville grew to be someone who was much more difficult to bully by his later years at Hogwarts, resisting not only the Slytherin students, but also Alecto and Amycus Carrow and Severus Snape. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Neville proved to have made an impressive and complete turn around from his earlier years of crumbling under Draco's bullying, when he openly defied Lord Voldemort and beheaded Nagini, effectively destroying Voldemort's final Horcrux.
Draco and Neville were fourth cousins, but both of them did not know about this relationship.
Albus Dumbledore, his former headmaster
Draco showed particular dislike for the Headmaster Albus Dumbledore, who was in favour of complete acceptance of Muggle-borns, a contradictory view to that of the Malfoys'. As such, Draco often ridiculed Dumbledore's ideals and choices. He was excited at first when given the mission to kill Dumbledore, with the desire to redeem his family name and avenge his father, even daring to use the derogatory term 'Mudblood' in front of the Headmaster, the latter of which displeased Dumbledore. However, Dumbledore pitied Draco when he became a Death Eater, as he knew that Voldemort had forced Draco to his bidding by threatening Draco's parents. Furthermore, when Dumbledore offered to save Draco from the Death Eaters, Draco seemed inclined to accept the offer before the exchange was interrupted by the arrival of his fellow Death Eaters. When Draco witnessed Snape killing Dumbledore, he appeared horrified, which likely compounded his regret of ever becoming a Death Eater.
Also before his fourth year, Draco referred to Dumbledore as a Mudblood-lover.
Dolores Umbridge, his former D.A.D.A. professor
Accustomed to the preferential treatment he received from Severus Snape, and reaping the benefits of his family's connections and status, Draco tried to use his grandfather's good name to get close to Horace Slughorn, though Slughorn did little more than ignore him. However, Dolores Umbridge, who was familiar with Draco's father, made Draco and his friends members of the Inquisitorial Squad, and was quick to allow the Slytherin Quidditch team to re-form after she disbanded every other 'Student Organisation, Society, Team, Group, or Club' with Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four.
Draco showed contempt for the teachers who lacked status or didn't fit his or his family's standards of blood purity, such as Remus Lupin, who was a Werewolf and consequently tended to look ragged and poor; Rubeus Hagrid, an unkempt half-giant; and Alastor Moody (Barty Crouch, Jnr in disguise), who was an Auror known for the extensive list of Death Eaters he had captured, as well as his intense paranoia. Draco refrained from being too openly contemptuous toward the ex-auror due to fear. Incidentally, during the Ministry's smear campaign against Dumbledore, the same three teachers were cited as 'eccentric decisions' made by Dumbledore, and evidence of his diminishing competence in the position Headmaster. Draco often found himself at odds with Head of Gryffindor House Professor McGonagall, who never played favourites with any student, least of all Malfoy, though he showed her some level of grudging respect, while she did not accept Harry's accusations of Draco's crimes without sufficient evidence. Draco similarly seemed to feel some respect toward Filius Flitwick. Draco also disliked the caretaker Argus Filch because he was a Squib and never hesitated to punish Draco, although they did work together in the Inquisitorial Squad.
Myrtle Warren
During Draco's second year, when the Chamber of Secrets was opened a second time, Draco jeered to the disguised Harry and Ron that the first time the Chamber was opened, a Mudblood died — that 'Mudblood' being Myrtle.
During Draco's sixth year, when he was assigned by Lord Voldemort to kill Albus Dumbledore, he became stressed out from the difficulty of the mission and the consequences of failure. Surprisingly, despite Draco's prejudice against Muggle-borns, Draco apparently visited Myrtle regularly in a bathroom, where he confided in and even openly cried in front of her. In turn, she was under the impression that Draco was a sensitive boy who was being bullied (which was true, though Myrtle would not have known Lord Voldemort was the one bullying him). This may be one of the rare moments that Draco showed something other than disgust for Muggle-borns, though it is unknown whether he was aware of Myrtle's blood status and connection to the Chamber of Secrets' opening during Voldemort's time at Hogwarts.
Lord Voldemort, his former master and former idol turned enemy
Although Draco originally admired and respected Lord Voldemort, he came to fear him after having his family's safety threatened.
Draco joined the Death Eaters at age sixteen, when Lord Voldemort threatened to kill his parents if he failed in his mission to assassinate Albus Dumbledore. In fact, Voldemort wanted to punish Lucius Malfoy for not retrieving a Prophecy from the Department of Mysteries in his assumption that Draco would fail and have to be punished accordingly. Draco fought in several battles for Voldemort, including the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Skirmish at Malfoy Manor. After Voldemort's final defeat, Draco was not imprisoned, as he and his family had deserted the Death Eaters prior to Voldemort's defeat.
Although it is unknown if Draco ever learnt this, it was ironically his act in disarming Dumbledore before his death and unknowingly mastering the Elder Wand which prevented Voldemort from fully mastering the wand's power. Draco, in turn, was disarmed by Harry of his wand during the Skirmish at Malfoy Manor, thereby giving Harry mastery of the Elder Wand. When Harry told Voldemort these facts, the latter simply dismissed them, arguing that they made no difference and that Voldemort threatened to 'attend to [i.e., kill]' Draco, likely as punishment not only for Draco's unintentional meddling but also for Draco's parents' disloyalty to Voldemort. Fortunately for the Malfoys, this arrogant indifference ultimately resulted in his final defeat at the hands of Harry Potter,
By 2020, Draco had become so disillusioned from the Death Eater cause due to his experiences with Voldemort that he (Draco) helped the Trio defeat Voldemort's daughter Delphini in her plan to save Voldemort from his first downfall back in 1981. What was rather remarkable about Draco's involvement in this escapade was that Delphini was the illegitimate daughter of Draco's aunt Bellatrix, and therefore Draco's cousin. This defiance of Delphini and Voldemort demonstrated that Draco wanted so little to do with his erstwhile master that even having the Dark Lord's daughter being a blood relative was a repugnant notion to him. Draco also might have been motivated by a desire to redeem himself from his Death Eater past. During this period in his life, Draco also began referring to Voldemort by his name rather than the 'Dark Lord' as he did in his youth, which might have been motivated by his self-redemption.
Draco Malfoy was the Seeker for the Slytherin Quidditch team starting his second year at Hogwarts. Malfoy appeared to be very popular with the team. This is most likely because during his second year his father bought the team new and faster brooms. Also, the rest of the team appeared to have the same views as he did because they smirked when Malfoy called Hermione Granger a 'Mudblood' and laughed when a curse backfired on Ronald Weasley after the disagreement with Hermione Granger.
Draco also appeared to be somehow related to one of the team members — Marcus Flint — through his maternal 2nd great-grandfather, who married the pure-blooded Ursula of the Flint family.
Draco's father and partial namesake, Lucius Malfoy
Tom Felton as Draco Malfoy in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Draco Malfoy in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
Draco Malfoy in LEGO Dimensions
Draco Malfoy as a LEGO minfigure (first edition)
Draco Malfoy as a LEGO minifigure (new edition)
Draco Malfoy as a POP! Vinyl
Draco Malfoy (in his Quidditch robes) as a POP! Vinyl
Draco Malfoy as seen in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
Draco Malfoy as seen in Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells
J. K. Rowling has commented that Draco is very capable of compartmentalising his life, which makes him skilled at Occlumency and at bullying others.
She also compared Draco to his first cousin once removed, Regulus Black, in that they were both initially attracted to the Death Eater organisation, but 'the reality of what it meant was way too much to handle'. Rowling also compared Draco to Dudley Dursley; in addition to both being bullies, Draco was also 'raised as a pampered only son, indoctrinated with his parents' beliefs'. She has stated that there is 'a real moral cowardice to Draco', but that he is not 'wholly bad'.
"Point me!"
Forest of Dean, West Country England, Great Britain
Professor Rubeus Hagrid (b. 6 December 1928) was an English half-giant wizard, son of Mr Hagrid and the giantess Fridwulfa, and elder half-brother of the giant Grawp. Hagrid stood at eleven feet, six inches tall.
Hagrid attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1940 and was sorted into Gryffindor house. In Hagrid's third year, he was framed by Tom Riddle for the crime of opening the Chamber of Secrets and using his pet Acromantula to attack several Muggle-born students and eventually killing one of them. Though Hagrid's wand was snapped and he was expelled, he was trained as gamekeeper of Hogwarts and allowed to live on the school grounds at the request of Albus Dumbledore.
In 1991, Hagrid was given the task of reintroducing Harry Potter to the wizarding world. In 1993, Hagrid would assume the post of Care of Magical Creatures professor after the retirement of Professor Silvanus Kettleburn. As a member of both the original and the reinstated Order of the Phoenix, Hagrid fought in several battles of the First and the Second Wizarding Wars, including the Battle of Hogwarts in 1998.
It can be assumed that Hagrid kept in contact with the trio after the war. By 2017 he was still living, and presumably still teaching and tending to his gamekeeping duties at Hogwarts. When Harry's son, Albus Severus, started school he invited him for tea, just as Hagrid had done for his father and his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger.
Hagrid and his father
Hagrid was born on 6 December 1928 to Mr Hagrid, a wizard, and Fridwulfa, a giantess, and grew up in the West Country of England, near the Forest of Dean, where he acquired his distinctive accent.
When Hagrid was about three, his mother returned to her giant colony, leaving his father to raise him alone. Hagrid said he had very few memories of his mother from his childhood, but remembered his father fondly; as a half-giant, he overtook his father in size by the age of six, and amused the "tiny" wizard by picking him up and setting him on top of a dresser when Hagrid was annoyed with him. Later, when talking to Harry, Ron, and Hermione about the death of his mother, Hagrid admitted that she was not a great mother at all. He grew to an height of eleven and a half feet tall, immense by human standards but very small by giant standards.
Hagrid's father was thrilled when his son was accepted at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where Hagrid began his education in 1940 in which he was Sorted into Gryffindor House. During his third year, Hagrid acquired one in what would be a long line of dangerous pets: a young Acromantula which he named Aragog.
Riddle finding Rubeus Hagrid keeping a young Aragog in the school dungeons, in 1943
That same year, fifth-year student Tom Marvolo Riddle, who would go on to become Lord Voldemort, opened the Chamber of Secrets and unleashed another monster, which Riddle used to attack and petrify a number of Muggle-born students until he finally caused the death of a girl named Myrtle Warren. When the school was threatened with closing, a consequence highly undesired by Riddle, the boy found out about Aragog and turned Hagrid in as the culprit. It likely didn't help that Hagrid had a habit of getting into trouble every other week; he'd once tried raising werewolf cubs under his bed and was known to sneak off into the Forbidden Forest to wrestle trolls (both of these statements were likely exaggerations on Riddle's part however). Hagrid protected Aragog and helped him flee to the Forbidden Forest; however, he was shortly thereafter expelled from Hogwarts, a fate that he was relieved that his father never knew of, having died during Hagrid's second year.
Hagrid taking new first years to Hogwarts
Following his expulsion, the Ministry of Magic forbade Hagrid from practising magic and destroyed his wand. The then-Transfiguration teacher Albus Dumbledore, who was convinced that Hagrid was innocent, nonetheless convinced then-Headmaster Armando Dippet to have Hagrid trained for the job of Gamekeeper and allow the orphan to remain a resident of the school. Hagrid continued to do magic using his pink umbrella, which most likely contained the broken fragments of his wand, with varying degree of success. At some point after he came of age in 1945, Hagrid was entrusted the responsibility of helping out with the security of the school when he was named the school's Keeper of the Keys, in which capacity he was tasked with, among other things, opening the Entrance Gates to let visitors in and out of the school grounds and escorting new students to the castle for their first-ever arrival at Hogwarts school.
At some point following the graduation of Molly Weasley around 1968, Gamekeeper Ogg retired or otherwise left the position, and Hagrid officially succeeded him in the role as gamekeeper of the school and took over his duties full-time.
Hagrid as a member of the original Order
Sometime in the 1970s, Hagrid joined the original Order of the Phoenix. It was a secret organisation founded by Albus Dumbledore to oppose Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters. The Order was constructed after Voldemort returned to England from abroad and started his campaign to take over the Ministry of Magic and persecute Muggles and Muggle-borns.
Voldemort's first reign of terror lasted years and turned friends against each other. It was said that during this time it was difficult to trust one another, as you did not know for sure who had gone over to the dark side, partly due to the Death Eaters' access to the Imperius Curse. The Order worked with the Ministry to oppose the Dark Lord and his followers, even allowing Aurors the use of Unforgivable Curses. Voldemort also had a number of magical dark creatures under his command as well, such as giants.
Hagrid delivering Harry Potter to 4 Privet Drive
At the abrupt end of the First Wizarding War, Albus Dumbledore sent Hagrid to rescue a one-year-old Harry Potter from the ruins of his house in Godric's Hollow, after Lord Voldemort murdered both James and Lily Potter in 1981. Using Sirius Black's motorcycle, he brought Harry Potter to Albus Dumbledore and Minerva McGonagall, who were waiting to deliver the boy to his only remaining family — Lily's Muggle elder sister, Petunia, and her husband Vernon Dursley. Hagrid was very sad at the thought of James and Lily Potter being dead.
Early in the 1984–1985 school year, Hagrid rescued Jacob's sibling from Devil's Snare. He also met Ben Copper. Around this time, he also got a puppy, which he later named Fang.
Shortly before one of his birthdays, Hagrid lost one of his pets and stopped being as cheerful as he usually was. Around this time, Dumbledore recruited Jacob's sibling to help throw him a huge birthday party to cheer him up and show just how much everyone appreciated him.
At some point before this, he saved a seventh-year's life, made a first-year feel welcome at Hogwarts, and baked rock cakes to cheer up a third-year.
During the 1986 summer holidays, he bred an excess amount of Flobberworms in his hut, which he was unsure what to do with. He informed Jacob's sibling of this at the start of the 1986–1987 school year, before they asked him about Boggarts on the school grounds. He told them Boggarts had not been seen at Hogwarts since Jacob's school days.
During the 1987–1988 school year, Hagrid's hut became infested with Bundimuns. Jacob's sibling helped Hagrid clear out the infestation with the Scouring Charm, for which Hagrid was extremely grateful.
Hagrid hospitalised in St Mungo's
In the 1990–1991 school year, Hagrid was bitten by an Acromantula from the Forbidden Forest and had to receive treatment in St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. As part of their seventh-year career assignments at the hospital, Jacob's sibling and Penny Haywood attended to his bedside. They even brought him a Pumpkin Pasty to eat.
Hagrid giving Harry a birthday cake
After Harry was accepted to Hogwarts in 1991, Hagrid was given the task of finding Harry, as Harry's uncle Vernon was doing everything in his power to prevent his nephew from receiving his Hogwarts acceptance letter. On Harry's eleventh birthday, Hagrid found the Dursleys and Harry in an isolated Hut-on-the-Rock, and accidentally broke the door down from the force of his knocking. Vernon threatened him with a gun, only for Hagrid to contemptuously seize the gun and twist it into a knot.
Hagrid gave Harry a birthday cake and revealed to Harry that he was a wizard, and several times came close to losing his temper at Vernon due to repeated insults, but lost it entirely when Vernon called Albus Dumbledore, a "crackpot old fool". In retaliation, Hagrid attempted to turn Harry's spoiled cousin, Dudley, into a pig, but only managed to give the boy a pig's tail. Hagrid credited this to Dudley being "so much like a pig already, there was not much left to do".
Harry and Hagrid visit Diagon Alley in search of school supplies
Once it was confirmed that Harry would be attending Hogwarts, after Hagrid decidedly ignored the Dursleys' protests, he helped Harry find his bearings in the magical world by taking him to Diagon Alley, through the Leaky Cauldron, to buy his school necessities. While in Diagon Alley, Hagrid took Harry to Gringotts Wizarding Bank to withdraw some funds from the Potters' vault, and to retrieve the Philosopher's Stone from high-security Vault 713, to be transported to Hogwarts for even safer keeping. Hagrid also bought Hedwig, a snowy white owl, for Harry's eleventh birthday. He comforted Harry about his upcoming attendance at Hogwarts school and provided him with a ticket detailing the date, time and place that he would need to catch the Hogwarts Express.
Hagrid and the stranger at the Hog's Head
When news got out that Vault 713 had been broken into (shortly after it had been emptied by Hagrid), Harry, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger quickly realised that whatever Hagrid had moved from Gringotts to Hogwarts was being hidden in the off-limits third-floor corridor and guarded by a massive three-headed dog. Hagrid refused to disclose what the vault had contained, but he mentioned that the secret was "between Professor Dumbledore an' Nicolas Flamel".
In the spring of 1992, Hagrid met a hooded man (Quirinus Quirrell in disguise) at the Hog's Head and was enticed to play a game of cards when the mysterious person bet a dragon egg. Assuming the man was a dragon dealer and fellow dangerous creature enthusiast, and under the influence of a fair amount of mead, Hagrid was convinced to divulge details about Fluffy, the three-headed dog Hagrid had lent to Dumbledore to help guard the Philosopher's Stone.
The dragon egg preparing to hatch
Harry, knowing that Hagrid had always wanted a dragon and thinking it far too much a coincidence that a man just happened to bring a rare dragon egg to the local pub, questioned Hagrid alongside Ron and Hermione about what had exactly happened during the card game. This time, Hagrid let slip to the trio what he had told the hooded man: the secret to calming Fluffy was that one simply had to play music and Fluffy would fall asleep. This allowed the trio to pursue the potential thief.
Once the dragon egg hatched, Hagrid lovingly named the hatchling Norbert. Hagrid was initially blind to the chaos that the hatchling caused, but eventually, Harry, Ron, and Hermione convinced him to allow Norbert to be taken to a dragon sanctuary by friends of Ron's brother, Charlie, who worked with dragons. After learning that Voldemort had attempted to steal the Stone using the information Hagrid gave him while drunk, Hagrid was distraught with guilt, but Harry assured Hagrid that he did not blame him. As an apology, Hagrid spent the time that Harry was unconscious sending off owls to some of his parents' old school friends, assembling an album full of wizarding photos of Harry's parents for him.
Fudge visiting Hagrid in his hut in order to take him to Azkaban
During the 1992–1993 school year, Hagrid showed public disdain for the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher Gilderoy Lockhart, although he never did so for any other teachers. In 1993 Hagrid was sent to the wizarding prison, Azkaban, when the Chamber of Secrets was re-opened. It was assumed he was the one who reopened the Chamber because his expulsion from Hogwarts was for the same occurrence. Even with Dumbledore backing Hagrid, Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge insisted on taking Hagrid anyway. So on the same night Dumbledore was asked to step down as Headmaster by the school governors, Hagrid was escorted to Azkaban. However, he was able to help Harry and Ron solve the mystery surrounding the Chamber, by advising them to "follow the spiders."
Hagrid during his short stint in Azkaban
Following the spiders led the boys to Aragog, the Acromantula believed to have attacked students during the 1942-1943 school year, and his family. Though Harry and Ron barely escaped the encounter with their lives, they managed to obtain some valuable information over the course of their conversation with Aragog: the monster within the Chamber had nothing to do with Hagrid, and the girl it had killed in the 1940s had died in a bathroom. Harry was thus able to find the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets, slay the basilisk within, and destroy Tom Riddle's diary.
As it turned out, the actual perpetrator had been the person who had turned Hagrid in in 1943. Hagrid was exonerated and released from Azkaban. He returned to Hogwarts at three o'clock in the morning and joined in the ongoing celebration of the closure of what had been a terrifying incident, accidentally knocking Harry and Ron face-first into their plates of trifle when he cuffed them on the shoulders.
Hagrid's first Care of Magical Creatures lesson
In the 1993–1994 school year, Hagrid became a professor of the Care of Magical Creatures. For his first lesson, Hagrid taught his third-year students about hippogriffs. After explaining the proper way to greet a hippogriff and choosing Harry to demonstrate, Draco Malfoy caused trouble by insulting the hippogriff Buckbeak, even though Hagrid had just warned the class to treat the creatures with respect. Buckbeak attacked Draco, and the Ministry of Magic issued an order for Buckbeak's execution after a hearing in which Lucius Malfoy's pull at the Ministry was demonstrated, the incident also damaging Hagrid's self-confidence; later lessons focused on tamer creatures like flobberworms. Buckbeak's attack on Malfoy was later used during the Triwizard Tournament by Rita Skeeter to give Hagrid a very bad reputation.
The night of Buckbeak's intended execution
An appeal took place on 6 June 1994, but this was to no avail, and Buckbeak was to be executed at sunset that night. Before the execution, Harry, Ron, and Hermione visited Hagrid to console him, and they left just before the executioner arrived. Knowing Buckbeak's position, and the exact timing of the start of the execution, Harry and Hermione were able to save Buckbeak by going back in time with Hermione's Time-Turner, allowing them to rescue Buckbeak after the Ministry team sent to execute him had confirmed his location while Hagrid and Dumbledore were under observation, thus guaranteeing that neither would be blamed for Buckbeak's rescue/escape. Delighted at the escape of his beloved pet, Hagrid spent the whole night celebrating with a large bottle of what may have been Firewhisky.
Hagrid teaching his fourth-year Care of Magical Creatures class
During the 1994–1995 school year, the Triwizard Tournament was held at Hogwarts. Students from the Durmstrang Institute and the Beauxbatons Academy of Magic attended Hogwarts starting in October, and Hagrid was tasked with taking care of the Beauxbatons' Abraxans, which drank only single malt whiskey and required forceful handling. Over the course of the year, he performed various tasks essential to the workings of the tournament: in November, he helped Charles Weasley take care of the dragons used in the First Task of the tournament, which he showed Harry at the suggestion of Professor Moody (who was really Barty Crouch Jnr); he also bred Blast-Ended Skrewts as a project for his fourth years, which were to be used in the Third task of the tournament.
Hagrid at the Yule ball dancing with Madam Maxime
Throughout the year, Hagrid and Olympe Maxime, the half-giantess headmistress of Beauxbatons, had a budding romantic relationship, which included dancing during the Yule Ball. Hagrid confided in her his life story, revealing to her that he is a half-giant, assuming her to be one as well because of her massive size. She was offended by the insinuations that she was part giant, and left him heartbroken.
Rita Skeeter, in her Animagus beetle form, overheard Hagrid's confession and reported it in the Daily Prophet. After receiving a fair amount of hate mail, Hagrid hid in the seclusion of his hut, while Professor Wilhelmina Grubbly-Plank temporarily took over Care of Magical Creatures, and attempted to resign from his position as Professor. Dumbledore refused to accept Hagrid's resignation, and he was eventually convinced to come back and teach by Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
Hagrid in the Forbidden Forest with Ron and Hermione
Before the events of the third task, Hagrid was called by Dumbledore to escort Harry back to the castle after he and Viktor Krum encountered Barty Crouch Snr at the edge of the Forbidden Forest. When it appeared that Krum had been attacked by Crouch (really it was his son hiding in the trees), Igor Karkaroff accused Dumbledore of treachery and spat at his foot. This caused Hagrid to lose his temper with Karkaroff and pin him to a tree, demanding an apology. He was talked down by Dumbledore, and saw Harry back to his common room, reprimanding him for being in such a situation and warning him against the foreign students.
Following the return of Lord Voldemort, Hagrid attempted to comfort Harry after his ordeal and admitted that he had believed Voldemort would have returned eventually, echoing something he had told Harry at their first meeting; that Voldemort did not have enough humanity left to die. He admitted to Harry and his friends that he and Madam Maxime had important business to attend to over the holidays but refused to say more. He also imparted some wisdom to Harry, helping him accept that what would come would come.
Hagrid and Madam Maxime on their shared mission
When Albus Dumbledore learned of Voldemort's rebirth, he sent Hagrid and Madame Maxime as envoys to the giant colonies of north-eastern Minsk, in the hopes of dissuading the giants from joining Lord Voldemort's side in the coming war. Bearing gifts of eternal Gubraithian Fire and a goblin-made battle helmet, they eventually won over the Gurg, Karkus.
However, two Death Eaters that Voldemort had sent on the same mission engineered an uprising. This uprising was led by the giant Golgomath, who beheaded Karkus and usurped his position. Golgomath then ordered his subordinates to attack Hagrid and Maxime and forced them to flee. Golgomath was far more keen towards the Death Eaters and got on well with Walden Macnair, both of whom enjoyed killing and had shared a dislike toward Hagrid.
Hagrid subsequently found that his mother had died years ago, and the existence of his half-brother Grawp, who was having a hard time within his colony as he was considerably smaller than most giants. Hagrid insisted on bringing Grawp back to Hogwarts due to this and presumably to prevent Grawp from being enslaved by Voldemort alongside the other giants. Grawp, however, was highly resistant to the idea and had a general tendency to be violent. Thus Hagrid and Grawp made the journey back to Scotland separately from Madam Maxime.
Umbridge interrogating Hagrid about his long absence
About halfway through the school year, Hagrid returned from his mission for Dumbledore with his half-brother, Grawp. In 1995, Dolores Umbridge was brought in as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, and later became the first and only Hogwarts High Inquisitor. Hagrid barely excused himself for his long absence from Umbridge's tyrannical questioning and was surprised that he would be subjected to her inspection soon afterwards.
Hagrid telling Harry, Ron, and Hermione of his negotiations with the giants
Hagrid resumed his teaching post, beginning with a lesson about Thestrals. Despite their rather off-putting appearance and the inability of most of the class to see them, Hermione found these lessons far more useful than Hagrid's typical classes. Regardless, early in 1996, Professor Umbridge put Hagrid on probation after supposedly finding his lessons unsatisfactory by her standards, despite Hermione's every effort to make sure Hagrid's curriculum was geared toward preparing students for the upcoming O.W.L.s. Umbridge's harsh judgement was largely due to her distaste for "half-breeds," and it was only the resistance she met from Headmaster Dumbledore that kept her from firing Hagrid altogether. When confronted by the trio about this revelation, Hagrid attempted to make light of it (nearly concussing Professor Vector with his fist as she went past) but was consistently jumpy and nervous at the prospect of being sacked.
Hagrid introducing Grawp, his half-brother, to Harry and Hermione
However, once Dumbledore was forced to leave in order to shield Harry from punishment for establishing Dumbledore's Army, Hagrid feared that he would be driven out by the new Headmistress Umbridge. In preparation for this, he introduced Harry and Hermione to Grawp. Grawp took an immediate liking to Hermione, whom he called "Hermy," and Hagrid asked the two of them, along with Ron, to take care of Grawp in his absence.
Upon Dumbledore's departure, general chaos reigned within the school, as the students became determined to make Umbridge's job as hard for her as possible; Lee Jordan even released a couple of nifflers into her office, for which she blamed Hagrid. Umbridge finally attempted to have Hagrid forcibly removed from the premises, and possibly arrested, when she brought several Ministry officials to his hut in the middle of the night so as not to cause a commotion with the students due to their earlier presence at Sybill Trelawney's dismissal. Hagrid refused to go quietly and took on the officials, whose attempts to Stun him proved fruitless thanks to his giant blood. Fang came to his master's aid until one of the wizards Stunned him, prompting Hagrid to lift the culprit bodily from the ground and throw the unfortunate soul ten feet away.
Hagrid visiting a wheelchair-bound McGonagall
While all of this was being witnessed by the trio's Astronomy exam, Professor Minerva McGonagall came charging out of the castle demanding that Hagrid be left alone and, in a disgustingly cowardly move by the officials, was seriously injured after being hit by four simultaneous Stunning Spells without warning. Enraged at this dishonourable conduct and the injury of his friend and colleague, Hagrid knocked out two more of his assailants before fleeing with his unconscious dog. Aurors were sent to search for Hagrid, but he successfully evaded capture by hiding in the same cave that had previously proved a useful hiding place for Sirius Black. Once Dumbledore was reinstated as the Headmaster of Hogwarts and Umbridge permanently removed from the school, Hagrid was welcomed back to his post.
Hagrid accompanied the trio and some members of the Weasley family to Diagon Alley as security for Harry, as these were dark and dangerous times. When Hagrid found out that none of his sixth-year Gryffindor students chose to continue past their O.W.L. level of Care of Magical Creatures, he initially misinterpreted this as a reflection of his students not liking him, as opposed to his questionable teaching.
Hagrid eventually came to forgive Harry, Ron, and Hermione, understanding that their N.E.W.T. classes were difficult with massive work loads (and after Hermione confirmed that they could not have managed his classes with Time-Turners, as they had all been smashed during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries); his anger abated completely when he was overcome with worry about the failing health of Aragog.
Hagrid at Aragog's funeral with Harry and Professor Slughorn
When Aragog died in 1997, he asked Harry, Ron and Hermione to help him bury the dead Acromantula's body, though the heightened security around the castle with Voldemort's confirmed return made that difficult. Ultimately, spurred on by Felix Felicis, Harry went to Hagrid's anyway and met Professor Horace Slughorn on the way. Hagrid, along with Harry and Professor Slughorn, buried Aragog near the pumpkin patch, and then gave him a tearful salute involving a good deal of mead. Harry used the situation to his advantage in retrieving a memory of Tom Riddle asking about Horcruxes from a very inebriated Slughorn.
Hagrid and Harry attempt to put out the fire
During the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, Albus Dumbledore was killed by Severus Snape (on Dumbledore's orders). Near the end of the battle, he confronted Death Eater Thorfinn Rowle who attempted to curse him only to realise that Hagrid's giant blood protected him. Rowle proceeded to set Hagrid's Hut on fire while the Death Eaters were fleeing the school grounds. Hagrid and Harry Potter, who had chased Snape out of the castle, put it out before the hut burned down.
Hagrid carrying Dumbledore's body during his funeral
Hagrid was grief-stricken about Dumbledore's death, having been one of his strongest supporters. Hagrid carried Dumbledore's body to be interred at his funeral, almost breaking down several times. Hagrid placed the body carefully upon the table. Then he retreated down the aisle, blowing his nose with loud trumpeting noises that drew scandalised looks from some, Dolores Umbridge for example. Later Hagrid and Grawp were seen comforting one another.
Hagrid and Harry Potter along with the others right before the sky battle
Hagrid was among the thirteen members of the Order of the Phoenix, led by Alastor Moody, that made up the Advance Guard. The Advance Guard was in charge of moving Harry Potter out of the Dursley home before his seventeenth birthday; the plan to do so included having five of Harry's friends (Ron, Hermione, Fleur Delacour, and Fred and George Weasley), as well as Mundungus Fletcher, impersonate Harry to act as decoys, with an Order of the Phoenix member protecting each of them, and fly to six safe houses before taking portkeys to the Burrow. Knowing that any Death Eaters watching out for them would assume the most skilled Auror would be moving with the real Harry, Alastor Moody took Mundungus Fletcher, while Hagrid was given the important task of protecting the real Harry in the side-car of Sirius Black's motorcycle.
Voldemort duelling against Harry Potter over Little Whinging
Arthur Weasley had helped Hagrid make several adjustments to the bike, including adding a button that produced dragon's fire, one that produced a net, and another that produced a solid wall, all of which materialised behind the bike by expanding out of its exhaust pipe. As it turned out, the Death Eaters had found out about the plan to move Harry earlier than rumoured (as the Order had purposely released false information about moving him at a later date) and the seven Harrys, with their Order protectors, were ambushed.
Hagrid was able to keep the Death Eaters at bay with the help of the modifications on his bike and Harry's wand-work, but when Harry discovered one of the attacking Death Eaters was an imperiused Stanley Shunpike, he made the unusual move of using the Disarming Charm. As he had done the same unexpected thing in Little Hangleton graveyard in 1995, Harry was identified as the real deal, and Voldemort came after him personally. In the struggle that followed, the motorcycle was torn apart and Hagrid dove off the bike at a Death Eater, falling a great distance to the ground. He survived, however, as did Harry, when it turned out they had fallen into the protection surrounding the Tonks house.
Hagrid finding out Moody was killed during the Battle of the Seven Potters
Nymphadora Tonks's parents, Ted and Andromeda healed their injuries, as Hagrid comforted Harry over the death of his beloved pet owl Hedwig, saying she had lived a "good old life". Since Hagrid had a history of having trouble keeping secrets, Fleur Delacour suspected Hagrid was the one who had unintentionally leaked the date of the intended move, although Harry refused to blame anyone even before that was revealed not to be the case. That same night, Hagrid and all the other members of the Order mourned the death of Alastor Moody, who had been targeted immediately by Voldemort, exactly as Moody anticipated.
Hagrid and Maxime attending Bill and Fleur's wedding
During the summer of 1997, Hagrid was present at Harry's seventeenth birthday party. He gave him a mokeskin pouch which held objects retrievable only by the owner. Hagrid also attended Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding, accidentally sitting in the wrong spot (and destroying a number of chairs) before finding the correct place to sit. During the wedding, Kingsley Shacklebolt warned the crowd that Voldemort had taken over the Ministry. It is unknown if Hagrid fought the Death Eaters that attacked the Burrow.
Once back at Hogwarts, Hagrid continued his job as gatekeeper and Professor of Care of Magical Creatures. At the request of new headmaster, Severus Snape, Hagrid was placed in charge of students who had been assigned detention. Detention with Hagrid consisted of work in the Forbidden Forest, which was far safer than detention with Amycus and Alecto Carrow. Later that year, Hagrid narrowly escaped arrest after holding a Support Harry Potter party in his hut. He then went into hiding, presumably in the mountains, with his half-brother, Grawp. His escape was reported hours later on the radio programme Potterwatch.
Hagrid carrying an apparently dead Harry
Hagrid returned to Hogwarts with Grawp for the final battle. He rushed out onto the grounds to prevent injury being done to the Acromantula who had swarmed out of the Forbidden Forest and were climbing up the walls of the school. He was taken captive by the Death Eaters. When Harry appeared in the forest Hagrid shouted for him to run, though was silenced by Rowle and was forced to watch as Harry sacrificed himself. After Harry's apparent death at the Dark Lord's hands, Hagrid was forced to carry his body back to the castle, sobbing and crying non-stop, devastated over the loss of Harry. As the supposed "victory party" approached the castle, Hagrid yelled at the centaurs for refusing to involve themselves in the battle and help, but he burst into tears again before he could finish his scolding.
Hagrid hugging Harry after the battle
When fighting resumed at the arrival of reinforcements, which included Buckbeak and Hagrid's herd of tame Thestrals, as well as the centaurs he had scolded earlier, Hagrid couldn't find Harry, as he used the Invisibility Cloak during the confusion. He then fought against the Death Eater Walden Macnair, presumably recognising him from both Buckbeak's trial and the mission to recruit the giants and threw him against the wall of the Great Hall, knocking him out. Hagrid was among the first to approach and congratulate Harry after Voldemort's ultimate defeat. He was seen in the Great Hall among the other survivors of the battle.
Hagrid delivering a student's letter
Hagrid continued working at Hogwarts in the 21st century. Before 31 July in 2008, he took on the role of special messenger and delivered the Hogwarts acceptance letter to an unidentified Muggle-born student in their home. He also picked them up and helped them purchase school supplies in Diagon Alley. On 1 September, he led the first-year students across the Great Lake to the Hogwarts Castle on boats as usual. During the Sorting Ceremony, he brought in Ivy Warrington, who had been distracted by the bushes outside the castle and gotten lost.
The next day, he picked up a copy of The Monster Book of Monsters and calmed it down after it went out of Robyn Thistlethwaite's control in the library. Robyn was frustrated at not being able to cast her spells right, so Hagrid suggested that she visit the Duelling Club. There, he watched Robyn and the unidentified student practise spells against Cassandra Vole and Fischer Frey.
Hagrid with students
During the 2009–2010 school year, a group of students came to Hagrid for help with the assignment given by the visiting History of Magic professor Jakub Gorski, which was to uncover a mystery about a lost treasure within the castle. At the time, he was preparing a butter-fly pie for his half-brother Grawp, and a Swooping Evil flew out of it due to the pie not having been completed. The students helped him capture the creature and finish the pie, and Hagrid told them about a map leading to a lost family heirloom, which were often whispered about by the portraits in the halls.
Hagrid, Grawp and the student taking the picture
Grawp stayed with Hagrid until winter, during which he caused some disturbance at the school. Hagrid arrived in time when some students, who didn't know who Grawp was, were beginning to fight Grawp, and properly introduced him to them. Around Christmas, Hagrid wanted to give Grawp a present, and talked about what to choose with the unidentified Muggle-born student. They inspired Hagrid to come up with the idea of taking a picture with Grawp, so Hagrid went and got a camera, possibly from Argus Filch. He had trouble getting it to work, though, so he summoned the student again to let them help him with it. The three eventually took the picture together.
Hagrid talking to students by the Great Lake
During the 2010–2011 school year, before a Care of Magical Creatures class, Hagrid heard his students discussing their sightings of something in the Great Lake and talked about what he thought it might've been. Later, when the unidentified student provided enough evidence to let Hagrid believe it was a Kelpie, he talked to them about the creature's temperaments and offered suggestions on what spells to use when dealing with one, such as the Placement Charm for putting a bridle on it, and the Bubble-Head Charm to breathe underwater while riding it. After the substitute Study of Ancient Runes professor Elspeth MacGillony was arrested, Hagrid met with the involved students by the Great Lake and discussed the Kelpie, encouraging the unidentified student to take a ride.
Luna, Hagrid and the student talking
At some point, Hagrid was joined by Hogwarts alumna Luna Scamander for his investigation of the mysterious appearance of Manticores on the school grounds. They watched students playing on the Quidditch pitch, where they sighted baby Manticores heading towards the Forbidden Forest. Later in front of his hut, Hagrid introduced Luna to the unidentified Muggle-born student and talked about their mission of locating the potentially existing Manticore mother. After Luna went into the forest, Hagrid pointed the student to where she was, and welcomed them back when they exited the forest. Before Luna left, she entrusted her Magizoology suitcase to Hagrid and the student.
Hagrid and the student seeing McGonagall
When a Dementor attacked Neville Longbottom and his students near Hargid's hut, Hagrid arrived in time to check out the situation. He and the unidentified student brought Neville to the Hospital Wing and went to see Headmistress McGonagall to report the event. When more and more Dark creatures were preparing to attack, Hagrid helped other staff members and students put up a defensive barrier around the castle. He presumably also fought in the subsequent all-out battle against the creatures.
The students revealing the pumpkins to Hagrid
Around Hallowe'en, Hagrid prepared pumpkins in his pumpkin patch to be used for the Hallowe'en feast, but they were accidentally destroyed by a Blast-Ended Skrewt went rogue. The students then sought to replant the pumpkins without letting Hagrid know, and after they succeeded, they revealed the big pumpkins to him. After the feast, Hagrid was playing the flute in his hut when he was heard by the unidentified student, and they played together. The students also talked to him about their dream of finding Hagrid having disappeared, and he assured them he would always be at Hogwarts.
He was still working at Hogwarts by 2017, at 89 years old, owing to the natural longevity of wizardkind, which also meant that he would likely have an extremely long life by Muggle standards. He invited Harry and Ginny's youngest son, Albus, to his hut for tea, just as he had done during Harry's first year. Hagrid never married, despite his reciprocated attraction to Madame Maxime, as she was ultimately too sophisticated for them to be a good match.
In 2019, Hagrid led the members of the then recently established Statute of Secrecy Task Force seeking a career as Magizoologists, welcoming them by saying that he could sense they were going to sign in as he was able to see that they shared a curious spirit and ensuring them that, although being a Magizoologist was far from easy, they could succeed if they had the spirit to withstand the difficult trials and could recover. He first took them to the Diagon Alley to buy several robes and other essential pieces of equipment required to handle beasts and creatures for increased durability before proceeding to successfully teach the Stamina Charm (despite his own being "less-than-perfect"), and allowed them to help him handle several live Fire Crabs. The primary takeaway they got from this, however, was a boost in their tolerance of pain. He also gave those who chose to became an Auror an elective to raise their defences against beasts.
Rubeus Hagrid
Hagrid was born to a wizard father and a giant mother, making him a half-giant. As a half-giant, Hagrid possessed great physical strength and endurance, including a resilience against some spells, though his ability to withstand spells was not as great as that of full giants. He was about twice as tall as an average man, standing at eleven feet, six inches tall (too big for an ordinary-sized broomstick) and three times as wide, with a long mane of shaggy black hair and a beard that covered most of his face.
Hagrid's hands were as big as dustbin lids and his feet in their boots were like baby dolphins. He had dark eyes that glinted like black beetles. Hagrid's size often makes it difficult for him to enter rooms or buildings that are designed for ordinary sized people or not built with airy or grand designs, such as him not being able to fit easily into the Hospital Wing or the Burrow yet having no trouble moving in the Great Hall.
He often wore an exceptionally large moleskin overcoat with several pockets that held many things, though that sometimes caused him to spend a lot of time searching for what he wanted to find. Objects within the pockets have included any number of items, such as mouldy dog biscuits, the key to Harry Potter's Gringotts vault, peppermint humbugs, a squashy package of sausages, a copper kettle, a fire poker, wizard money, a birthday cake, birthday presents, a dirty spotted handkerchief, slug pellets, and a living owl. Hagrid's clothing is largely hand-made due to the descriptions of his clothing as being crafted of animal skin and far too large for a full-blooded or non-hybridised human being.
Despite his love for beasts, Hagrid was allergic to cats.
Hagrid was an incredibly warm, kind-hearted, intelligent, perceptive man, and would often forget his exceptional size and strength when patting people on the back. Another of Hagrid's greatest traits was his courage. He was also very loyal to his friends and was ready to defend them or fight for them if necessary. He was particularly loyal to Albus Dumbledore, describing him as a "great man". He would react with fury if anyone dared insult the headmaster and wouldn't hesitate to magically assault or rough up the offender. However, despite his loyalty, Hagrid was not good at keeping secrets and accidentally told Quirinus Quirrell, Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley, and Hermione Granger, the secret of how to get past his three headed dog, Fluffy, which all four of them used to get through to the Philosopher's Stone. This was again shown when he revealed his half-giant status to Olympe Maxime, which Harry, Ron and Rita Skeeter all overheard, with the latter exposing it to the wizarding world by an article in the Daily Prophet.
Hagrid in oven-mitts and an apron
Hagrid had a great love of magical creatures, including cross-breeds such as the Blast-Ended Skrewt, and had a better relationship with most of the inhabitants of the Forbidden Forest than most people, including the centaurs, though he had little interest in tame magical creatures due to the lack of a challenge they offered. Despite this, he did show a good understanding of such creatures when he returned to his post as Care of Magical Creatures teacher, continuing lessons on unicorns after Professor Wilhelmina Grubbly-Plank. Unfortunately he tended to overlook the dangers behind certain magical creatures, such as his dragon Norbert, and his pet Acromantula Aragog, which was alleged by Tom Riddle to be the monster of Slytherin in 1943, resulting in Hagrid's expulsion from the school. Hagrid never spoke about why he was expelled and would ignore any inquiries about it. Hagrid was fond of creatures in general and seemed to want to own any creature was even slightly fierce — his desires included a warthog and any dragon that he could get his hands on. He tended to give his pets ironic names, such as Fluffy for a vicious three-headed dog, and Fang, an affectionate Boarhound.
Hagrid had a fondness for drinks and was sometimes known to be aggressive, especially when people insulted or dishonourably attacked those he cared about. After Vernon Dursley claimed that James and Lily Potter deserved their fates and called Albus Dumbledore a "crackpot old fool", Hagrid threatened Vernon with his pink umbrella. When Igor Karkaroff accused Dumbledore of treachery and spat at his feet, Hagrid lifted Karkaroff off the ground and slammed him against a tree, roaring at him to apologise to Dumbledore. When some Aurors stunned Fang and Minerva McGonagall, he was so outraged and disgusted that he attacked the Aurors, furiously denouncing them as cowards and when he was younger, threw Tom Riddle to the ground when he framed Aragog of opening the Chamber of Secrets.
Despite this, Hagrid was a very sensitive person and was known to burst into tears when someone close to him was harmed or killed, or when he felt responsible for something that put his friends in peril, such as drunkenly telling Quirinus Quirrell how to get past his giant three headed dog, Fluffy.
His courage also concealed a deep fear of rejection and insecurity which was notably shown when he isolated himself after he was revealed as a half-giant and he attempted to resign from his position as the Care of Magical Creatures teacher until he was convinced otherwise by Dumbledore, Harry, Ron and Hermione.
When he was teaching, he also had a tendency to lose his self-confidence if his classes were disrupted such as when Buckbeak attacked Draco Malfoy, or if he believed people disliked his classes, which he mistook for people disliking him. Although he overlooked certain dangers, Hagrid also avoided doing anything against the Wizarding Law when he was under pressure such as when he avoided setting Buckbeak free, fearing he would be put back in Azkaban, and when he tried hard to avoid getting dangerous creatures when under probation by Dolores Umbridge.
Hagrid was also a good and caring brother to Grawp, insisting on bringing him back to Hogwarts on finding he was being picked on for his (relatively) small stature by the other giants in his colony, and hiding in the forest, despite the frequent injuries and the trouble doing so caused him.
He also enjoyed cooking for his friends. However, his tendency to mostly cook foods suitable for himself and a lack of understanding of what his friends preferred eating meant that his cooking was usually turned down politely.
Hagrid conjuring fire with the Fire-Making Spell
For a man who was expelled during his third year and rarely used magic as a result, Rubeus Hagrid was a rather good wizard, being considerably advanced, with some of his abilities even comparing to the N.E.W.T.-level academical difficulty. Being a Half-Giant, he also had magical abilities which stemmed from his giant blood, such as great superhuman strength and endurance along with a certain degree of magical resistance. Hagrid's hands-on and outdoor style of living allowed him to acquire other skills such as looking after magical creatures, craftsmanship, crossbowmanship and social networking within the magical community.
Hagrid transfiguring Dudley Dursley
Hagrid conjuring water with Harry Potter
Hagrid with Fang
As early as in his third year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and possibly earlier than that, Hagrid managed to gain possession of numerous magical creatures, many of them dangerous, including Aragog, Fang, Fluffy, Buckbeak, and Norbert (later Norberta). Hagrid's love for animals and his talent for taming and training them won him the post of Care of Magical Creatures Professor at Hogwarts.
In their fourth year, Harry and his classmates were expected to help take care of Hagrid's Blast-Ended Skrewts, one of which (grown to an enormous size) was placed in the hedge maze for the final task of the Triwizard Tournament.
Grawp, his half-brother
Rubeus Hagrid was born to Mr Hagrid, a wizard, and the giantess Fridwulfa. Fridwulfa left the family because her son was "too small" for her liking, though Hagrid never seemed to resent her for abandoning him, generally appearing relatively indifferent about his lack of relationship with her. His father, on the other hand, seemed to be a very caring man who was heartbroken when his wife left, and was amused by the fact that, at the age of six, Hagrid was large enough to be able to set him on top of a dresser. Mr Hagrid died when his son was twelve years old, and by the time Hagrid tried to find his mother in 1995, she too had died, although he dismissed the issue on the grounds that he barely remembered her. On the other hand, he was saddened by his father's death, though he was at least glad that his father did not live to see Rubeus expelled from school.
During his travels to the Northern giant colonies that same year, Hagrid found his maternal half-brother: an undersized giant called Grawp. As Grawp's size made it difficult for him to function within his colony, Hagrid brought him back to Hogwarts and hid him within the Forbidden Forest. As Hagrid and Maxime's mission had failed, it is extremely likely that Hagrid also brought Grawp back to prevent his half-brother from being enslaved by Voldemort alongside the other giants. Hagrid's attempts to raise and socialise Grawp initially appeared completely pointless; Grawp's progress in picking up English, or in curbing his violence, which often left Hagrid with a number of painful looking injuries, seemed almost non-existent.
However, over the course of the year, Grawp grew increasingly attached to his older brother and was distressed by Hagrid's disappearance after Dolores Umbridge attempted to have Hagrid arrested in 1996. By Albus Dumbledore's funeral, Grawp was relatively calm and presentable, and he even attempted to comfort Hagrid by patting him (though a bit too hard) on the head and later embracing him. Grawp spent the first part of the Battle of Hogwarts stumbling around, yelling for "Hagger," but eventually jumped into the fray, fighting the giants brought to the battle by Voldemort.
Buckbeak the Hippogriff
Hagrid had a good relationship with most of his pets and other magical creatures, most notably Fang, Aragog, and Buckbeak. His relationship with most magical creatures was arguably better then the ones most other wizards had.
Fang was usually Hagrid's companion most of the time, although he was cowardly. Fang demonstrated some protectiveness towards Hagrid in spite of his cowardly nature such as when he attempted to protect Hagrid when Dolores Umbridge and some Auror's attempted to sack and arrest him. Hagrid, in turn, was also protective of Fang as he was enraged when the Aurors had stunned him, carrying his unconscious body as he fled Hogwarts, and immediately went after Fang when he was afraid during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Hagrid had a huge friendship with Aragog, whom he had hatched in an egg when he was a student at Hogwarts. Hagrid protected Aragog when he was suspected to be the monster that opened the Chamber of Secrets, throwing Tom Riddle to the ground when he tried to curse him and sending Aragog to live in the Forbidden Forest. Hagrid managed to find Aragog a wife, Mosag, which allowed Aragog to have a family in the forest. Aragog, in turn, was grateful for Hagrid's friendship and protection to the point that he never directly harmed a human out of respect for Hagrid and commanded his family not to harm Hagrid while he was alive. However, this did not stop Aragog from letting his children and descendants attempt to eat Harry and Ron even though they were friends of Hagrid, claiming that he could not deny them fresh meat when it wandered into their midst. Hagrid was devastated when Aragog died and, along with Professor Slughorn, buried him near his Hut. Although Aragog's children and descendants did not hold back in attempting to devour Hagrid after Aragog's death, Hagrid attempted to protect them during the Battle of Hogwarts in honour of his friendship with Aragog, even though the Acromantulas were attacking both Death Eaters and Hogwarts defenders.
Hagrid cared greatly about Buckbeak as he tried hard to prevent his execution by the Ministry of Magic and was overjoyed when he managed to escape with Sirius Black, unaware at the time that Harry and Hermione helped him escape. Hagrid was later reunited with Buckbeak and looked after him when Sirius was killed by Bellatrix Lestrange. Hagrid briefly had a pet dragon named Norbert, whom he had acquired from a disguised Quirinus Quirrell in exchange for knowledge on how to get past Hagrid's three-headed dog Fluffy. However, since dragons were illegal, Hagrid reluctantly allowed Norbert to be sent to Charlie Weasley in Romania and was devastated to let her go. When inquiring about Norbert from Charlie six years later, Hagrid was shocked to learn that Norbert was a female dragon, having mistaken her for a male dragon, and of her being renamed Norberta. Although the full extent of Hagrid's relationship with Fluffy is unknown, Hagrid used Fluffy to guard the entrance of the Underground Chambers where the Philosopher's Stone was being kept and before he accidentally told Quirrell, was the only one apart from Dumbledore who knew how to calm him.
Hagrid also had a cordial relationship with the Forbidden Forest Centaur colony, especially with Bane, Ronan, Magorian and Firenze, and sometimes visited them whenever he went inside the Forest. However, Hagrid had a falling out with the centaurs when he defended Firenze from them as they believed Firenze had betrayed them by accepting the teaching post of Divination at Hogwarts, which was further complicated when he brought Grawp into the Forbidden Forest. During the Battle of Hogwarts, when Hagrid carried Harry, believing he was dead, back to Hogwarts, he was furious when the centaurs did not fight in the first half for Harry, accusing them of cowardice, which convinced them to fight in the second half of the battle. While Hagrid remained on good terms with Firenze, it is unknown whether Hagrid made peace with the other Centaurs after the battle ended.
Albus Dumbledore, his dear friend
Albus Dumbledore placed great trust in Hagrid, which Hagrid returned with fierce loyalty and unwavering admiration. This loyalty always flared up whenever someone insulted Dumbledore, one time causing Hagrid to give Dudley Dursley a pig's tail, and causing him to choke Igor Karkaroff another time. Hagrid would often describe Dumbledore as a "great man".
While a professor, Dumbledore believed in Hagrid's innocence when he was accused of opening the Chamber of Secrets, and convinced then-Headmaster Armando Dippet to train Hagrid as the Gamekeeper and allow him to remain at Hogwarts. Hagrid went on to join Dumbledore's Order of the Phoenix as an adult, and he was the one tasked with bringing Harry Potter to Dumbledore after James and Lily Potter were murdered in 1981.
Dumbledore also trusted him to move the Philosopher's Stone from Gringotts Wizarding Bank to the school and believed Hagrid could offer Harry as much protection as "a bunch" of Ministry Aurors could while shopping in Diagon Alley, in 1996. In 1995, Dumbledore gave Hagrid the difficult task of approaching the giant colonies of the North and dissuading them joining forces with Lord Voldemort, knowing Hagrid was fully capable of the delicate handling required to court the Gurg.
Dumbledore additionally was the only one who supported Hagrid's decision to bring his giant half-brother Grawp with him back to Hogwarts after his mission to recruit the giants failed, allowing Grawp to stay in the Forbidden Forest and later having him sent to the mountains near Hogsmeade. After Albus Dumbledore's death, Hagrid was so devastated to the point that he was inconsolable, despite the best efforts of Olympe Maxime and even his half-brother Grawp.
Harry Potter, a good friend and student
Harry Potter and Hagrid shared a special relationship. Hagrid was one of the first people (if not the first) Harry could remember showing him genuine kindness and appearing to truly care for him. Hagrid was the one who introduced Harry back into the wizarding world, and he empathised with Harry's situation, as they were both a bit different from wizarding norm and were orphans who had been more or less left to fend for themselves.
Hagrid was Harry's first true friend, and the two helped each other get through many difficult situations and constantly looked out for one another. Though Harry often took issue with Hagrid's penchant for collecting dangerous pets, as well as the fact Hagrid decided to bring his giant half-brother to Hogwarts, he never failed to support Hagrid in his efforts to protect and care for all of them.
When Harry learned about Hagrid's half-giant status, he never showed any concern about it, citing his relationship to the Dursleys as an example of how people should not be judged by who they were related to but who they were themselves. Hagrid's kindness and friendship allowed Harry to come to terms with how being an orphan never leaves you, as Harry witnessed Hagrid still mourning his father's death even over fifty years since he passed. This bond between two orphans and Hagrid's reassurance that Harry's parents would be proud of him helped Harry to live with pride in his family. Hagrid was also the one who first told Harry about who his parents were and gave him his first true look at his heritage and family.
Hagrid was shocked and horrified when Harry came to Voldemort to be sacrificed and yelled at him to run. Hagrid was devastated when he thought Harry was dead and openly sobbed in front of the Death Eaters and rebuked the centaurs for not helping Harry. Hagrid returned Harry to the forest and was very gentle with his body. Hagrid was delighted when he found Harry was alive and was among the first people to congratulate Harry after he defeated Voldemort for the final time.
Hagrid also met Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley through Harry, and he presumably remained in touch with all three of them well after their time at Hogwarts, as in 2017, Harry reminded his son, Albus, that he had been invited to Hagrid's Hut for tea upon his arrival at Hogwarts. In many ways, Hagrid served as a pillar of strength for Harry, giving him his first look at just how kind people can be, and gave Harry his first taste of kindness, which caught on like wildfire and served to groom Harry into the selfless guardian and warrior he became. Suffice it to say, were it not for Hagrid, Harry could have ended up a profoundly different person.
Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, his friends and students
Like Harry, both Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley had a close relationship with the half-giant. Though Ron was openly outraged by some of Hagrid's more dangerous pets, particularly Aragog, Hermione was more reserved with her comments and tended to be more proactive than either Ron or Harry when it came to helping Hagrid protect his creatures. She tried desperately to help him appeal Buckbeak's death sentence in 1994, and in her fifth year, she made every effort to ensure sure Hagrid's Care of Magical Creatures curriculum would give Dolores Umbridge no excuse to sack him.
When Rita Skeeter revealed that Hagrid was half-giant in the Daily Prophet, both Ron and Hermione stood by him and convinced him that despite all the prejudice he faced, there were still people who loved him and wanted him to stay at the school. Hagrid was on the point of resigning, but with their encouragement, remained at Hogwarts and continued teaching. Ron did show a certain level of concern upon learning of Hagrid's shock, given wizarding history regarding giants; Hermione, on the other hand, noted in an unsurprising tone that she suspected it long ago, seeing as his size fit the profile.
Though Hagrid was himself a supporter of magical creatures, he disagreed when Hermione decided to create SPEW. Hermione pointed out how unhappy Dobby was being with Lucius, but Hagrid also pointed out that other house-elves considered him to be crazy.
Hagrid came to Hermione's defence during her third year when she was in conflict with the boys (as Ron believed her cat had eaten his rat Scabbers, and Harry was angry that she had gotten his Firebolt confiscated). Hagrid was able to convince Harry and Ron of how poorly they were treating their friend, and eventually, he succeeded in getting the two to reconcile with Hermione. He also encouraged Hermione during her fourth year to ignore the hate mail as he had following Rita Skeeter releasing a nasty article about Hermione in Witch Weekly.
It is possible that Hagrid was close with Ron and Hermione's daughter, Rose Granger-Weasley and their son Hugo Granger-Weasley, as he was planning to have tea with Harry's son, Albus, in 2017.
Olympe Maxime
During the Triwizard Tournament, Hagrid began a romantic relationship with Madame Olympe Maxime, Headmistress of Beauxbatons Academy. They were often seen together, talking and walking around the grounds, and they danced together at the Yule Ball. Though the two had a minor falling-out when Hagrid implied (correctly) that Maxime, like him, was part-giant, they eventually reconciled and travelled together to appeal to the giants of the Northern colonies and dissuade them from joining forces with Voldemort. Maxime was also seen comforting Hagrid during Albus Dumbledore's funeral. The current status of their relationship is unknown, but as Hagrid never got married, it can be assumed that their relationship did not work out.
Tom Riddle
Hagrid was two years below Tom Riddle at Hogwarts, and in Hagrid's third year, Riddle opened the Chamber of Secrets, unleashing a Basilisk on Muggle-born students. After the death of Myrtle Warren, Hogwarts was in danger of closing, and to prevent that happening, Riddle framed Hagrid and his pet Acromantula, Aragog, for the crime. Hagrid protected Aragog from Riddle, throwing him to the ground when he tried to curse Aragog, making Hagrid the only person to challenge Riddle while he was a student. Despite this, Hagrid was expelled from Hogwarts and had his wand snapped in half by the Ministry of Magic. Believing in Hagrid's innocence, however, Professor Albus Dumbledore convinced then-Headmaster Armando Dippet to allow Hagrid to stay on at Hogwarts as gamekeeper.
Tom Riddle never felt remorse for framing Hagrid and ruining his life. As Riddle went on to become Lord Voldemort, Hagrid joined the Order of the Phoenix to fight against Voldemort and his Death Eaters. In 1981, Hagrid was devastated by the murder of his friends James and Lily Potter but was relieved when the Dark Lord disappeared after failing to kill young Harry Potter. Although many thought that Voldemort was dead, Hagrid, agreeing with Dumbledore, believed that he would return one day, as he believed that he did not "have enough human left in him to die". As with most of the wizarding community, he refused to speak Voldemort's name, and generally referred to him as "You-Know-Who." However, when he first explained Voldemort's background to Harry, he reluctantly said Voldemort's name. When Voldemort was searching for the Philosopher's Stone, he took advantage of Hagrid's love and knowledge of magical creatures and through Quirinus Quirrell, gathered the secret of subduing Fluffy through music from a drunken Hagrid, who was remorseful afterwards. Since Voldemort had a certain respect for Hogwart's professors, it is not known if that included Hagrid, who taught Care of Magical Creatures. This is unlikely considering Hagrid's half-giant status.
In 1995, after his resurrection, Voldemort dispatched his Death Eaters to convince the giants to join their side, while Dumbledore had sent Hagrid and Olympe Maxime to do the same. While Hagrid and Maxime were on good terms with the Gurg, Karkus, the Death Eaters supported the giant Golgomath in an uprising that resulted in Golgomath beheading Karkus and taking over the giant colony. The giants then attacked Hagrid and Maxime, who were forced to retreat.
In 1998, Hagrid fought in the Battle of Hogwarts and was captured by the Death Eaters. After Harry sacrificed himself to be killed, Voldemort ordered a grieving Hagrid to carry his friend's "dead" body in his arms, where it would be clearly visible to Harry's supporters. On the way back to the school, Hagrid expressed his fury with the centaurs for staying out of the fight, prompting them to join in soon after. Hagrid was among the first to congratulate Harry after his defeat of Voldemort, showing his disdain for the Dark Lord.
Although Hagrid's expulsion, and much of his later reputation for clumsiness, was originally Tom Riddle's fault, Riddle at least did not attach any special importance to his relationship with Hagrid, and at the Battle of Hogwarts, made no mention of their past. Hagrid, in turn, is never seen to admit to having known Riddle in their youth, and never referred to him except as 'You-Know-Who', or (once) by his preferred alias of Voldemort; indeed, Hagrid is terrified of him in the Battle of the Seven Potters, in spite of having known him. It was never confirmed if he ever knew that his former classmate and the Dark Lord were one and the same; however, since Hagrid said to Harry in 1991 that Voldemort was in Slytherin, it is likely that Hagrid knew.
The Weasley family
Hagrid was on good terms with Molly and Arthur Weasley, who had both attended Hogwarts during the 1960s, while still Hagrid served as an assistant to his predecessor Ogg.  He met them again in 1992, at Flourish and Blotts, when Arthur got into a fist fight with Lucius Malfoy. Hagrid broke up the fight and told Arthur that he should have ignored Malfoy, though he clearly sympathised with Arthur on acting the feelings Malfoy went out of his way to inspire. Hagrid was fond of the Weasley's due to their kind nature, immense courage, and their fair-minded views on Muggle-borns and half-humans like himself.
Twins Fred and George Weasley were friends of Hagrid since their time at Hogwarts. Hagrid seemed to be one of their favourite members of the staff, as he had a sense of humour and was not anywhere near as strict as many of the professors, though he mentioned that he spent "half his life" chasing the twins away from the Forbidden Forest.
Hagrid also knew Charles Weasley quite well; Charlie had been one of the best Care of Magical Creatures students in his time at Hogwarts, and Hagrid described him as being "great with animals". He went on to study dragons in Romania, and Hagrid helped him with the dragons imported to Scotland for the Triwizard Tournament in 1994. Two years earlier, Hagrid had sent his pet dragon, "Norbert" to Charlie in Romania, and Charlie later informed Hagrid that "Norbert" was, in fact, actually "Norberta".
Bill Weasley also attended Hogwarts before working in Egypt with Gringotts Wizarding Bank, and Hagrid encountered him numerous times when he moved back to England. Bill arrived with the Order of the Phoenix at Hogwarts during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, where he was attacked by Fenrir Greyback. Hagrid was invited to Bill's wedding to Fleur Delacour, in which Ginny, the youngest child and only daughter of the Weasley family, was a bridesmaid. Hagrid was quite fond of Ginny throughout her time at Hogwarts, and she was among the students who never even considered turning her back on Hagrid when she found out he was half-giant. Hagrid also knew she had a crush on Harry Potter, and playfully teased Harry about the fact in 1992.
Hagrid did not appear to have much of a relationship with Percy Weasley, though it is unlikely they would have been very close before the Battle of Hogwarts, even if they had had more contact. When Percy was employed by the Ministry of Magic, he did not show any sign of protesting against the Ministry's criticism of Dumbledore's decision to employ Hagrid, as he was a half-giant and Percy disbelieved Dumbledore's claims of Voldemort's return. He also tried to persuade his younger brother Ron to support the Ministry of Magic in favour of Dumbledore, to whom Hagrid was fiercely loyal. However, Percy abandoned the Ministry once it fell to Lord Voldemort, apologised to his family, and fought against the Death Eaters at the Battle of Hogwarts, after which Hagrid would have undoubtedly thought better of him.
James and Lily Potter
Hagrid had been a good friend of Harry Potter's parents, Lily and James, since the time they attended Hogwarts. Hagrid admired them for being amongst the best wizards and witches of their age. Hagrid became a member of the Order of the Phoenix around the same time as James and Lily, and they fought together throughout the First Wizarding War. Hagrid was beside himself when Lily and James were killed in 1981; Albus Dumbledore sent him to rescue their infant child, Harry, from the wreckage of their home in Godric's Hollow, and Hagrid later reintroduced Harry to the wizarding world in 1991.
Hagrid knew them very well and conveyed the truth about them to their son, who had been lead to believe insulting lies about them and their deaths, restoring and preserving their legacy in their son. Hagrid also kept a leather-bound family album of them which he gave to Harry, which Hagrid came into possession of through unknown circumstances, but might have been entrusted to him by Lily and James to give to their son. Hagrid was known to respect them for their desire to fight for what was right.
Sirius Black
Though Hagrid described Sirius Black as having been a "trouble-maker" in his youth, Hagrid had clearly been fond of him, as well as his best friend, James Potter, when they were students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. After graduating, Sirius, along with James, Lily Evans, Remus Lupin and Peter Pettigrew, joined the Order of the Phoenix around the same time as Hagrid.
When James and Lily discovered they were Voldemort's next targets, they went into to hiding with the use of the Fidelius Charm; Peter Pettigrew had been made their Secret-Keeper, unbeknownst to anyone else, and betrayed the Potters to Voldemort, framing Sirius for the crime. For many years, everybody, including Hagrid, believed Sirius was the betrayer. The night James and Lily died, Hagrid met Sirius in Godric's Hollow, where Hagrid had been sent to rescue the infant Harry Potter from the wreckage of the Potter's destroyed home, and Sirius lent Hagrid his flying motorbike to deliver Harry to Albus Dumbledore. By 1993, Hagrid was horrified to think that he comforted the "murdering traitor" that very night and deeply resented him for his betrayal, raging that had he knew, he would have attacked Black in retaliation.
Hagrid learned the truth in 1995 once Voldemort returned, a year after Sirius escaped from Azkaban and exposed Pettigrew as having been in hiding as Ron Weasley's pet rat, Scabbers. When Harry and Hermione Granger helped Sirius avoid the fate of receiving the Dementor's Kiss, they also saved Buckbeak, who was poised for execution as ordered by the Ministry of Magic, and in doing so, provided Sirius with transportation to make his escape. Dumbledore re-instated the Order of the Phoenix in 1995, and following Sirius' tragic death during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries in 1996, Harry inherited Buckbeak, whom he sent back into Hagrid's care at Hogwarts. Hagrid was saddened by Sirius's death and tried to comfort Harry the best he could, saying that having known Sirius, he was confident that Sirius wanted to go down the way he did, which he truly deemed a valiant way to die.
Remus Lupin
Hagrid would have known Remus Lupin for about as long as he knew the Potters and Sirius Black, though they did not appear to be particularly close until 1993 when Lupin was appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, and they became co-workers. Both Hagrid and Lupin knew what it was like to be within the wizarding community, yet still considered outsiders and face its prejudices, as Lupin was a werewolf and Hagrid was a half-giant.
In 1995, they both joined the re-instated Order of the Phoenix and worked together throughout the Second Wizarding War to protect Harry Potter and bring about the end of Lord Voldemort.
Minerva McGonagall
Hagrid greatly respected Minerva McGonagall, the Transfiguration professor and Head of Gryffindor House. They attended Hogwarts around the same time (Hagrid having been expelled a few years before she started) and they later became members of the Hogwarts staff. As one of the most strict professors at Hogwarts, McGonagall sometimes disapproved of Hagrid's lack of refined behaviour, especially during the Sorting ceremony. However, they were close friends and fellow members of the Order of the Phoenix in both wars.
In 1995, when Dolores Umbridge brought several Ministry officials to either have Hagrid forcibly removed from the school grounds, arrested, or both, McGonagall immediately came to Hagrid's defence; she took four simultaneous stunners straight to her chest as she rushed to Hagrid's aid, and was incapacitated for some time at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. Hagrid was disgusted and outraged when McGonagall got stunned to the point that he attacked the Ministry officials who injured her, furiously denouncing them as cowards.
After Albus Dumbledore's death, McGonagall stated that she appreciated Hagrid's opinion very much, as Dumbledore had, and took it into consideration when determining the best time to close the school. McGonagall later became Headmistress of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where Hagrid was still living by 2017. Also, McGonagall showed no disdain when Hagrid drunkenly kissed her on the cheek at a Hogwarts Christmas celebration. On the contrary, she began to giggle and blushed. McGonagall was touched by Hagrid's defence of wanting to bury their mentor, Albus Dumbledore on Hogwarts's grounds, citing that no other Headmaster had given more to the school, and as such defended his stance on the matter.
Severus Snape
Hagrid always stoutly defended Severus Snape against Harry's doubts and allegations, on the basis that Albus Dumbledore trusted Snape completely. When Snape killed Dumbledore, Hagrid initially disbelieved the fact and told Harry he must be mistaken but was later furious to learn that Snape had indeed killed the late Headmaster. Hagrid openly opposed Snape when he became the Headmaster of Hogwarts by holding a Support Harry Potter party (unaware Snape was secretly still on their side), an act which almost resulted in his arrest and forced him to go into hiding until the final battle. Before Hagrid fled, Snape put students in detentions with Hagrid, ensuring that they were protected from the harsher and torturous punishments from the Carrows. However, Hagrid eventually learned of Snape's true loyalties during the final confrontation of the Battle of Hogwarts.
Hagrid and Argus Filch regularly found themselves at odds; Filch thought that Hagrid was "an oaf," and even told Mrs Norris, his cat, to keep an eye on the Gateskeeper. Filch did not seem to care or even really acknowledge when Hagrid became a professor, possibly because he was a half-giant, and Hagrid, for his part, called Filch a "sneakin' Squib", when the latter insulted him.
The centaur Firenze
Hagrid had been very familiar with Divination Professor Firenze, long before he began working at Hogwarts, and when the centaur's herd turned on him for entering into "the servitude of a human" by accepting the position at Hogwarts as a favour to Headmaster Dumbledore, it was Hagrid who saved him. Of all the centaurs Firenze seemed to be the most active in working against Lord Voldemort and was not above allowing Harry Potter to ride on his back in the process of saving Harry's life — both of which elicited great respect and gratitude from both Harry and Hagrid.
Hagrid also seemed to be on good terms with Horace Slughorn, the Potions master in 1996. It is possible that Slughorn was one of Hagrid's teachers at Hogwarts, but they later became co-workers. Slughorn attended Aragog's funeral and comforted Hagrid, and while this was mostly because he wanted to extract some of Aragog's valuable venom, Hagrid was touched nonetheless, and the two enjoyed a drunken salute to the late Acromantula.
Hagrid initially held Quirinus Quirrell in high regard, considering him a very talented and clever wizard, and initially seemed to have a good relationship with him, especially when he introduced Quirrell to Harry in the Leaky Cauldron. However, due to his loyalty to Voldemort, a disguised Quirrell later took advantage of Hagrid's love for magical creatures and manipulated a drunken Hagrid into revealing the secret of getting past Fluffy in exchange for a dragon egg. Hagrid was later horrified and guilt-ridden when he learnt of Quirrell's true nature after his death, calling him an "evil git" and blaming himself for Harry's injuries during his encounter with Quirrell and Voldemort.
Hagrid had a mixed relationship with Wilhelmina Grubbly-Plank as while she worked as a substitute for Hagrid in Care for Magical Creatures and his gamekeeping duties when Hagrid was absent or had a mission to do, he slightly envied her teaching skills, which made other students (including Harry, Ron and Hermione) consider her a superior teacher to him for Care of Magical Creatures. This also made him accept Harry, Ron and Hermione's untrue claims of Grubby-Plank being a "terrible teacher" when they attempted to reassure him that they still cared for him despite not taking the subject for their sixth year. Grubbly-Plank on the other hand seemed to respect Hagrid for his skills and abilities despite the students considering her a better teacher than him, as she complimented Hagrid's training of the school's Thestrals and also kept silent about his mission to recruit the giants when Harry inquired her about his whereabouts, understanding the importance of his classified mission.
Hagrid disliked Gilderoy Lockhart, as did the other teachers, due to him being an annoyingly obnoxious and an incompetent teacher. Hagrid did not read any of Lockhart's books, rejected his ideas of Harry trying to hog the spotlight, and openly criticised him, something that he would normally not do to a teacher.
Dolores Umbridge
The professor with whom Hagrid had the most difficult and antagonistic relationship was, by far, Dolores Umbridge, who was a pure-blood supremacist with a particular dislike for what she called "half-breeds." Throughout the 1995–1996 school year, she made Hagrid's life miserable with her disruptive evaluations of his teaching (part of her role as Hogwarts High Inquisitor, during which she was unabashedly condescending and critical.)
When a student released two Nifflers in her office, following Headmaster Dumbledore's departure from the school, she blamed Hagrid, although he had a rock solid alibi. She later brought Ministry officials to Hagrid's Hut in the middle of the night, either to arrest or forcibly remove him from the premises, though Hagrid was able to resist with the help of Minerva McGonagall and go on the run.
Hagrid was disgusted by Umbridge's and the officials attack on McGonagall, attacking the Ministry officials in retaliation, although he refrained from attacking Umbridge in order to escape from Hogwarts. Following the Skirmish in the Forbidden Forest, Umbridge was eventually suspended from Hogwarts in 1996 and Hagrid was reinstated as a teacher. She was also imprisoned in Azkaban two years later for her crimes against Muggle-borns because of her actions as Head of the Muggle-Born Registration Commission.
Apart from Harry, Ron and Hermione and the other Weasley children (excluding Percy), Hagrid seemed to have a good relationship with Lee Jordan who was a friend of Fred and George Weasley as he once shook Hagrid's hand, along with Fred and George, when he returned after his mission to find the giants. Apart from them, the other students had a mixed relationship with Hagrid which was especially evident while he taught Care of Magical Creatures.
Although many of the students had a relatively civil relationship with Hagrid outside his teaching, most of them considered Professor Grubbly-Plank a more qualified teacher for the subject since Hagrid sometimes lost his confidence and preferred teaching dangerous creatures. The Gryffindor students expressed the most enthusiasm when he assumed the post but after Draco Malfoy caused Buckbeak to attack him by insulting him and when Hagrid preferred teaching monstrous creatures over creatures which were tame, their enthusiasm on the subject reduced. Despite this, Hagrid arguably had the best relationship with the Gryffindor students as he was once a Gryffindor himself and was regularly seen supporting Gryffindor during Quiddich matches alongside the other Gryffindor students. Luna Lovegood believed that Hagrid was a poor teacher and said that Ravenclaw students considered him a joke. It is unknown what relationship Hagrid had with the Hufflepuff students, although it is possible their relationship was also mixed like the other students. However, while the other students mostly disapproved his teaching methods, Hagrid had an antagonistic relationship with the Slytherin students as they, encouraged by Draco Malfoy, were also prejudiced against Hagrid due to his status as a half-giant, and Draco's attack by Buckbeak, without caring that Draco did not listen to Hagrid in the first place.
However, despite Hagrid's mixed relationship with them, most of the students with the exception of Slytherin opposed Dolores Umbridge alongside Hagrid and disapproved of Umbridge's harsh and critical treatment of Hagrid due to her prejudice against part-humans. They also believed that Hagrid had improved in his teaching by the time he was temporarily sacked by Umbridge although many of them did not take the subject for N.E.W.Ts due to their past experiences with the dangerous creatures he taught. They were also extremely angry when Hagrid was attacked by Umbridge, again excluding the Slytherin students. Hagrid also opposed the Death Eater's control of Hogwarts alongside many of the students, including holding a Support Harry Potter Party in his Hut, and also fought alongside them against Voldemort and the Death Eater's during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Vernon, Petunia, and Dudley Dursley
Hagrid was sent by Albus Dumbledore to inform Harry Potter of his true identity on Harry's eleventh birthday in 1991 after it was revealed that Hogwarts's letters to him were getting blocked by his aunt and uncle, Vernon and Petunia Dursley, both Muggles who hated and feared magic.
Eventually, Hagrid found Harry and his family in an old shack out at sea (Vernon Dursley had become paranoid with the amount of Hogwarts letters arriving at their home, so he had temporarily vacated their home in the hopes that they would throw off any wizards possibly following them.) After giving Harry a birthday cake, he introduced himself to Harry, believing him to know everything about the wizarding world (from the letter left by Albus Dumbledore.) Upon learning that Harry knew nothing, Hagrid became furious at the Dursleys for not telling him anything.
When Hagrid proceeded to tell Harry that he was a wizard, Vernon became angry and admitted that they had known for years and had been trying to "stomp it out of him", including admitting that they lied to Harry in telling him that his parents had really been killed in a car crash. This further enraged Hagrid, but Vernon continued to try and keep Harry from going to Hogwarts, going so far as to call Albus Dumbledore a "crackpot old fool". This, however, sent Hagrid over the edge; he lost his temper and used his pink umbrella to give Dudley Dursley a pig's tail. This terrified Vernon and Petunia enough to let Hagrid take Harry. Eventually, they would remove the pig tail, but the encounter added a newfound fear of magic to the Dursleys' hatred of it. The incident scared Dudley so much that he instinctively grabbed his bottom when meeting the Weasleys, despite them being friendly wizards.
Lucius and Draco Malfoy, his enemies
Hagrid was disgusted by the Malfoy family's pure blood supremacist values, their open ill-treatment of Muggle-borns and "blood traitors", their allegiance to Lord Voldemort and their disrespect towards Albus Dumbledore; even going so far as to accuse them of 'bad blood', rather against the principles espoused by Dumbledore. In turn, the Malfoys disliked Hagrid, regularly mocking him and doing nearly everything in their collective power to get him sacked from his post at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
In 1992, Hagrid broke up a fight between Arthur Weasley and Lucius Malfoy in Flourish and Blotts, though Hagrid was more sympathetic to Arthur. During the 1992–1993 school year, Lucius was indirectly responsible for reopening of the Chamber of Secrets, as he had used the earlier scuffle with Arthur Weasley to slip Tom Riddle's diary into Ginny Weasley's cauldron full of books. Hagrid was blamed for the attacks, just as he had been fifty years earlier when he was framed by Tom Riddle for the Chamber's first opening. Hagrid was arrested as a precautionary measure by Cornelius Fudge, where Hagrid reacted angrily to Lucius's unnecessary presence and ordered him out. Lucius mocked Hagrid by wondering how his small hut could be considered a "house" and claimed he was only there to inform Dumbledore that he and the other governors had voted on his suspension. Hagrid saw through Lucius and accused him of threatening the other governors, which later proved to have been exactly the case.
Hagrid did not get along any better with Lucius's son Draco. Even before meeting Hagrid for the first time, Draco slandered him when talking to Harry Potter for the first time, describing him as "...a sort of savage - lives in a hut in the school grounds and every now and then he gets drunk, tries to do magic and ends up setting fire to his bed". Hagrid first met Draco in 1991 when he was sorted into Slytherin. During that year, Draco was put in detention with Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Neville Longbottom. Hagrid called Draco an "idiot" when he scared Neville, and in 1992, was outraged when he heard Draco called Hermione a Mudblood. Draco was in Hagrid's Care of Magical Creatures class in 1993 and ignored Hagrid's advice on how to handle Hagrid's hippogriff Buckbeak. Draco insulted Buckbeak, causing the hippogriff to lash out and cut Draco's arm. Hagrid took Draco to the Hospital Wing, but Draco swore revenge, and deliberately exaggerated his injury to get Hagrid into trouble. Lucius was furious when he found out and took legal action against Hagrid and Buckbeak. Hagrid tried hard to defend Buckbeak, but the court ruled in favour of Lucius, largely due to his influence at the Ministry, and Buckbeak was sentenced to death, but later freed by Harry and Hermione.
In Draco's fourth year, he openly disobeyed Hagrid by saying that he would not be coming down to look after the blast-ended skrewts, saying that he spent too much time with them during regular class. Hagrid, hearing about the previous punishment 'Moody' gave Draco, threatened to turn him into a ferret. Later that year, Draco happily provided Rita Skeeter with skewed details about the events of the previous year and delighted when Hagrid temporarily went into hiding following Skeeter's publication of the article revealing that Hagrid was half-giant. In his fifth year, Draco spoke negatively regarding Hagrid during Dolores Umbridge's inspection of a Care of Magical Creatures class conducted by Professor Grubbly-Plank, likely hoping that Hagrid would be placed on probation when and if he returned to Hogwarts, an outcome that did indeed come to pass.
Given that Draco's wife Astoria helped to raise their son to be a kinder man than Draco was in his youth, it can be assumed that Scorpius Malfoy had a better relationship with Hagrid than his father did. This is also likely due to Scorpius being best friends with Albus Potter who was already a good friend of Hagrid's before his first year.
The original Order of the Phoenix
Hagrid was friendly with most members of the Order of the Phoenix. Some of them were Albus Dumbledore, Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, the Weasley family, Remus Lupin, Sirius Black, James and Lily Potter, Severus Snape, and Minerva McGonagall.
Hagrid also knew and greatly admired Alastor Moody, and Moody's protege, Nymphadora Tonks. They fought together in several battles, including the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of the Seven Potters, where Hagrid was devastated by Moody's death. Tonks later married Remus Lupin, and their son, Teddy, would attend Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry after both his parents were killed at the Battle of Hogwarts.
Hagrid was also familiar with Dedalus Diggle, whom he introduced to Harry Potter at the Leaky Cauldron in 1991.
Voldemort and his Death Eaters in the Forbidden Forest
As Hagrid was a member of the Order of the Phoenix, he disliked the Death Eaters and tried to thwart their plans most of the time. The Death Eaters whom Hagrid knew the most were Severus Snape, Lucius Malfoy and his son Draco, clashing with Lucius before he was put in Azkaban, and had clashes with Draco while he taught Care of Magical Creatures.
Snape, on the other hand, defected from Voldemort, and Hagrid defended him whenever Harry, Ron and Hermione criticised him, except when he temporarily believed that Snape had betrayed Dumbledore at the Astronomy Tower.
Apart from the Malfoys, Hagrid also had an antagonistic relationship with Walden Macnair, who was a polar opposite to Hagrid's love and admiration for magical creatures. They first clashed when Buckbeak was going to be executed, with Macnair being Buckbeak's intended executioner, then for a second time when Macnair persuaded the giants to join Voldemort and as a result foiled Hagrid and Olympe Maxime's own attempt to convince the giants to join Dumbledore, and a third time when Hagrid threw him across the Great Hall during the Battle of Hogwarts, knocking him unconscious. Hagrid also knew Igor Karkaroff, as he once choked Karkaroff against a tree and told him to apologise to Dumbledore for accusing him of complicity in an attack on Viktor Krum. Thorfinn Rowle also tried to attack Hagrid following the Battle at Astronomy Tower and set his hut on fire. He later angrily silenced Hagrid when the latter tried to discourage Harry from sacrificing himself.
Rubeus in Latin means "red". The name suited Hagrid, as red could be for passion or emotion, "an earthy, warm and physical man, lord of the forest".
Hagrid is the archaic past participle of the verb "hagride", which means "harass or torment with dread or nightmares", and its etymology in turn is "hag" and "ride". A hag is a nightmare spirit in English folklore. According to folklore, the Hag sat on a sleeper's chest and sent nightmares to him or her. When the subject awoke, he or she would be unable to breathe or even move for a short period of time. This state is now called sleep paralysis, but in the old belief the subject had been "hagridden".
Hagrid also may mean "hung over," as from alcohol.[citation needed]
Rubeus Hagrid as illustrated by Mary GrandPré in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Rubeus Hagrid as a POP! Vinyl
Robbie Coltrane as Hagrid
Robbie Coltrane was usually filmed from a low camera angle to make him appear larger
Hagrid's bad spelling: "Happee Birthdae Harry"
Hagrid as seen in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
"Point me!"
Professor Severus Snape (9 January 1960 – 2 May 1998) was an English half-blood wizard serving as Potions Master (1981-1996), Head of Slytherin House (1981-1997), Defence Against the Dark Arts professor (1996-1997), and Headmaster (1997-1998) of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as well as a member of the Order of the Phoenix and a Death Eater. His double life played an extremely important role in both of the Wizarding Wars against Voldemort.
The only child of Muggle Tobias Snape and witch Eileen Snape (née Prince), Severus was raised in the Muggle dwelling of Spinner's End, which was in close proximity to the home of the Evans family, though in a poorer area. He met Lily and Petunia Evans when he was nine. He fell deeply in love with Lily upon their meeting and became a close friend of hers.
Severus started at Hogwarts with Lily in 1971, where he was sorted into Slytherin House. This put him in the same year as Lily but unfortunately for him she was sorted into Gryffindor House. Severus became the immediate enemy of James Potter and Sirius Black and was a frequent victim of their bullying. This led him to be irritable towards James's son Harry when he was a professor. Snape, when young, developed a passion for the Dark Arts, which increased as his desire for revenge against his bullies grew stronger.
Snape became involved with the bullies in Slytherin House, many of whom were pure-blood supremacists. This put his friendship with Lily, a Muggle-born, under great strain until it was eventually broken in their fifth year. In a misguided attempt to win back Lily's affections, Snape joined the Death Eaters along with a group of his fellow Slytherins.
Severus was made a member of the Slug Club presumably because of his talent in Potion-making. Horace Slughorn even kept a picture of him as a student, clutching his copy of Advanced Potion-Making. However, Horace did not actually have many hopes for Severus's future, as his photograph was kept behind many others.
As an active Death Eater, one of Snape's biggest contributions was letting Lord Voldemort know about the prophecy Sybill Trelawney made to Dumbledore. This part of the prophecy could have applied to either Harry Potter or Neville Longbottom, who was also born at the end of July 1980 to parents who were members of the Order. Once Lord Voldemort decided to target the Potters over the Longbottoms, Snape begged Voldemort to at least spare Lily. Voldemort agreed, then did not follow through on this promise.
Shortly before Lily Evans was murdered by Lord Voldemort, Snape changed sides and became a member of the Order of the Phoenix as well as a double agent during the Second Wizarding War. With tremendous difficulty, Snape prevented Lord Voldemort from learning the truth about his loyalties.
Despite the opinions of most others including Harry during his early life, Albus Dumbledore trusted Snape for reasons that were kept between them both until their deaths. Despite Snape killing Dumbledore, it is learned that they had a special agreement for him to do so. When he died, it was revealed that his deep strong love for Lily Evans caused him to redeem himself, joining Dumbledore's cause for her protection (and, after her death, that of her son) from Lord Voldemort.
The relationship between Dumbledore and Snape would be one of unusually strong loyalty, so much so that Snape agreed to kill Dumbledore upon the latter's own request. Before Dumbledore's death, Snape promised to protect the students of Hogwarts from the Death Eaters, who would inevitably take control of the Ministry of Magic as well as the school.
Snape later participated in the Battle of Hogwarts but was murdered by Lord Voldemort who mistakenly believed that Snape was the master of the Elder Wand (an immensely strong and powerful wand that Voldemort deeply desired, as well as one of the Deathly Hallows) when in reality, Harry Potter was the master of the Elder Wand, because Draco Malfoy had disarmed Dumbledore on the night of Dumbledore's death on top of the Astronomy Tower, and Harry had disarmed Draco at Malfoy Manor.
After Snape's death, Harry Potter ensured that his portrait remained at Hogwarts, honouring him as a hero, despite their significant personal differences. In addition, Harry later named his second son Albus Severus Potter in honour of Dumbledore and Severus, both of whom were an inspiration in Harry's life after the Battle of Hogwarts. Harry also was influenced by Severus' Hogwarts house, and freely admitted that his son Albus could choose Slytherin if he wished.
Severus Snape was born 9 January 1960 to Tobias Snape, an abusive Muggle, and Eileen Prince, a neglectful pure-blood witch. He began to identify with his mother's family and created a secret nickname from his mother's maiden name, calling himself the "Half-Blood Prince". His unhappy relationship with his father may have been the origin of his disdain for Muggles. It is implied that Severus was friendless and uncared for by his parents. This lack of care largely shaped Severus's bitter disposition and cruel behaviour later in his life.
A young Snape crying in his home at Spinner's End
Severus grew up at Spinner's End, a shabby suburb of Cokeworth. This area of town was near a dirty river and full of dilapidated houses, disused factories and broken down street lamps. Through the rest of his life, Severus continued to return there when he was not at school. The young Severus is depicted as being unwashed and wearing ill-fitting clothes "that were so mismatched that it looked deliberate". As a child, Severus was neglected and his parents often fought with one another. He could not wait to leave for Hogwarts at the end of the summer.
Snape telling Lily that she is a witch
Lily Evans and her family lived in the same town, close to Spinner's End. After watching her for some time, Severus noticed her evident magical abilities and began making friendly overtures. The two bonded quickly and it appears that he was very interested in Lily right from the beginning, though she only regarded him as a good friend. During this time he also developed a contempt towards her older sister, Petunia. This was most likely because she made disparaging comments about his clothes and residence but may also be because she was a Muggle.
Information from Severus's own memories of his first interactions with Lily and Petunia suggests that he was an awkward child with poor social skills. Even when it was important to him to make a good impression, he always seemed to have trouble doing so.
Snape looking at Lily shortly before being Sorted into Slytherin
Severus attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as a student from 1971-1978 and was Sorted into Slytherin House, at that time led by Potions master Horace Slughorn. On the way to Hogwarts for his first year, Severus sat with Lily Evans on the train. While on the train they met James Potter and Sirius Black. This encounter between the three of them revolved around a disagreement regarding what Hogwarts house was the best. This hostile first encounter would set the tone for the antagonism between the three of them for the rest of his life.
Sorted into Slytherin House upon their arrival at the school, classmates would later state that Severus excelled in the Dark Arts from an early age. At the age of eleven, he knew more curses and hexes than most of the seventh year students, according to Sirius Black. He was credited with creating a good number of popular spells like Levicorpus, Liberacorpus, Muffliato, and curses like Langlock, the Toenail Growth Hex, and his signature curse that he invented himself, Sectumsempra. He reportedly was friends with a gang of Slytherins who later became Death Eaters, including Avery, Mulciber, Bellatrix Black, Rodolphus Lestrange, Evan Rosier and Wilkes.
Severus also had contact with Lucius Malfoy, who was a prefect during his first year and greeted him kindly when he was Sorted into the Slytherin House. Most likely the two had good rapport at Hogwarts (which could also be a reason why Narcissa Malfoy trusted Severus to take care of Draco Malfoy and why he seemed to favour Draco during his later teaching years even when Draco refused it in the task to kill Dumbledore).
Snape in his fifth year studying by the Black Lake
Remus Lupin and Peter Pettigrew were also classmates of Severus. Around the same time, he also got acquainted with another notorious troublemaker; a Fifth year student by the name of Patricia Rakepick who not only was in the same house as his new school rivals, but also actively sought to mentor her younger schoolmates in the art of mischief-making without getting caught: While popular with many of their peers for her, she was, on the other hand, strongly disliked by most of the teachers for her excessive rebellious streak, frequent rule-breaking and the bad influence she was on her younger housemates.
No less discontent with her behaviour than their professors were, Severus's mistrust in Rakepick ran deeper still; she was an avid advocate for the existence of the fabled Cursed Vaults of Hogwarts. While her claims were dismissed by the faculty of the day, young Snape, however, was not so certain; seeing her as uncommonly ambitious for a Gryffindor and, he recognised, far from stupid, he eventually came to question her motives and her intentions for the vaults, eventually coming to regard her as a danger to the school and all who resided at the castle.
James and his group of friends were constantly at war with Severus throughout their school years. Severus's memories, recorded in the Pensieve, suggest that he was an introverted and studious individual, whereas James was arrogant, popular and athletic. Immediately upon meeting him, James disliked Severus for expressing a desire to be in Slytherin. James's big crush on Lily, and Severus's close friendship and unrequited love for her also heightened the tension between the two.
Snape being bullied by the Marauders
One recorded memory in the Pensieve bore witness to James bullying him, turning him upside-down to reveal his underwear in front of many students, including Lily. This action was proved to be very offensive and it increased the hatred between the two adolescents. In this accident, Lily came to Severus's defence, but this only made things worse: in a subsequent lashing out at James in an attempt to recover his lost dignity, Severus inadvertently called Lily a Mudblood. Lily refused to forgive him for it, even after his repeated apologies. This would forever be Severus's worst memory.
Severus noticed that Remus kept disappearing during the full moon and once followed him past the Whomping Willow (after being tipped off on how to do so by Sirius Black) to confirm his suspicions. This act could have cost Severus his life, as had it not been for James going after him to stop him when he learned of Sirius' 'prank', he might have found himself all on his own and caught off guard by a fully-fledged werewolf. As it was, however, James did reach Severus in time and managed to save him just before he got to the Shrieking Shack while Remus was in his wolf-form. Albus Dumbledore swore Severus to secrecy, but the true nature of Remus was clear to Severus. By their seventh year, James had grown out of his immaturity and arrogance to the point that Lily agreed to start dating him, even though he never grew out of his hatred for Severus — according to Sirius, Severus had always been a "special case" with James. Though it should be noted Snape's continued friendships with students who were trying to become Death Eaters did not help his relationship with the Marauders or Lily. Lily ended up marrying James, which only strengthened Severus's bitterness towards him.
There was also some overlap between his school career and that of a younger student by the name of Jacob, yet another rule-breaker Snape came to severely dislike. During the later part of his magical education, the school was plagued by several dangerous curses unleashed upon the school by Jacob after he tampered with the fabled Cursed Vaults, which resulted in the death and injury of several of his peers, although he suffered no permanent injury himself.
Severus Snape authoring curses of his own making
Severus was a talented wizard even in his childhood. It was apparent through the notes and scribbles in his potions textbook that he made time during classes to invent curses, charms, and clever potion innovations, while simultaneously learning the required textbook lessons.
Severus's potions textbook contained a few spells and curses which he was credited with inventing: Levicorpus, which grabbed the victim by the ankle and dangled him/her upside-down, and Sectumsempra, which caused slashing bloody cuts (guided by the wand gestures of the caster, like a blade/sword) which bled extensively. Levicorpus somehow escaped from Severus's secrecy, and became very popular around Hogwarts towards the end of his fifth year at school. Some other spells included Muffliato, which filled the ears of anyone nearby with an unidentifiable buzzing sound and another hex that caused toenails to grow at an unnaturally fast rate.
Severus's book later fell into the hands of Harry Potter in September 1996. Harry used the Half-Blood Prince's tips and earned praise with that year's Potions master, Professor Slughorn. Harry considered the Half-Blood Prince to be a better teacher than Severus, unaware at that point that Severus was the Prince, much to Harry's later displeasure.
The Half-Blood Prince's many annotations and corrections
The potions textbook has an inscription indicating it is Property of the Half-Blood Prince. Hermione Granger's research revealed that Prince was the maiden name of Severus's mother and so the nickname was revealed to be a combination of his mother's maiden name and his blood status. Harry Potter also pointed out the similarities between Snape's nickname and the name Voldemort gave himself. This nickname was apparently a secret, as Remus did not remember it ever being used publicly by Severus.
Snape during his time as one of Lord Voldemort's Death Eaters
Severus Snape eventually joined the ranks of Lord Voldemort's Death Eaters. His actions as a Death Eater are largely unknown, though he quickly became an important Death Eater in Voldemort's inner circle. He was the spy responsible for informing Voldemort about the prophecy foretelling his downfall. In early 1980, Snape eavesdropped on an interview for Divination Professor Sybill Trelawney and Albus Dumbledore at the Hog's Head Inn.
In the course of the interview, Trelawney prophesied that at the end of July, a child would be born who would cause the destruction of Lord Voldemort (which prompted Dumbledore to hire her, partly for her own safety). At that time it was not clear who was meant by the prophecy. Two children of prominent wizarding families were born that year at the end of July: Harry Potter and Neville Longbottom.
Albus reported at the Wizengamot trial of Igor Karkaroff that Severus had come to him and explained that he had been the one to overhear the prophecy, and reported it to Voldemort. However, Snape did not hear the entire prophecy, as the Hog's Head's barman and Albus' brother, Aberforth, caught him eavesdropping and threw him out.
Snape arrives at Potter cottage after Lily and James were murdered
Severus suffered terrible remorse when Voldemort decided that Harry Potter was the subject of the prophecy and that Lily Evans, the woman whom he always loved, was now in danger as a result of his actions. He begged Voldemort to spare her, who agreed. However, knowing that he could not leave Lily's safety in the hands of someone who could turn back at his word on a mere whim and that Lily would probably defend her child to the last breath, Snape also approached Albus Dumbledore to ask him to save Lily.
Snape pleaded with Dumbledore to hide her, along with her husband and son if he had to. Dumbledore agreed but insisted that Severus serve him as a spy among the Death Eaters. In fact, it was Snape's request to Voldemort which allowed Lily to let herself die in order for Harry to live when Voldemort attempted to murder him, therefore ensuring that his curse backfired and Voldemort's body was destroyed in the process.
Snape showing his love for Lily Evans, even after her death
Despite Dumbledore's best efforts to protect the Potters, Voldemort was tipped off by Peter Pettigrew, one of James' best friends, a spy, and he found them anyway. After Lily's death, Snape was devastated and distraught to the point of wishing himself dead, but Dumbledore urged him to ensure Harry's safety out of respect for Lily's memory; Snape initially insisted the danger had been averted with the Dark Lord gone, only for Albus to insist that he would return and everyone, particularly the boy, would be in danger when that happened. So Snape spent the rest of his life protecting her child, Harry Potter, who was often said to strongly resemble James. Distrusted for his past as a Death Eater by those on Albus Dumbledore's side, and hated by other Death Eaters for living as Dumbledore's stooge for ten years, Snape continued living on to complete Dumbledore's plan to protect Harry and defeat Voldemort.
Severus Snape as Potions Master
When Severus Snape began his teaching career at Hogwarts in 1981, taking up a teaching post around the same time as the threat posed by the rampaging curses that had terrorised the castle's residents were contained and the subsequent expulsion of his former peer, Jacob, for the rules he had broken in his quest for the Cursed Vaults and the fellow students who had been endangered in the process, he initially applied for the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, but was rejected multiple times.
Many students were under the impression that this was because Dumbledore feared Snape might return to his old ways if allowed to teach his favourite subject, but in reality it was because Dumbledore was aware by that point that the job had been jinxed by Voldemort. Knowing that no Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher would last longer than a year, Dumbledore instead employed Snape in the position of Potions Master and Head of Slytherin House, following the retirement of veteran Potions Master Professor Horace Slughorn. Though it seemed rather uncommon for someone as young as Snape to be named a Head of House at Hogwarts, it is possible that Snape was the only Slytherin teacher left at the school, or that he was placed there to keep a watchful eye on the young Slytherins, who were frequently accused of (but not without reason) joining the Death Eaters.
Following Voldemort's fall, Snape never attempted to find his old master, having switched sides ever since the Dark Lord had targeted Lily and this allowed him to avoid time in Azkaban as Dumbledore staunchly defended him. He fabricated the fact that he believed Voldemort to be dead as an alibi for still loyal Death Eaters, but in truth, he and Dumbledore had discussed Voldemort and knew he would inevitably return, henceforth the most important reason why he applied as a teacher: to ensure from the shadows the safety of Harry Potter, who Lily had died protecting. This would bring him into conflict with fanatical Death Eaters like Bellatrix Lestrange later in life, but Snape was almost immediately forgiven by the reborn Voldemort, because he could provide him with thirteen years of information on Dumbledore and the Order of the Phoenix.
Snape teaching a Potions class
In the meantime and with Voldemort vanished, he focused on his teaching duties at Hogwarts. As a professor, Snape was a stickler for discipline, with little patience for foolishness, yet extremely effective in his job and well respected by the other professors. His deep understanding of potion brewing, as shown by his expert concoction of Wolfsbane Potion, transformed the knowledge of potions from mere chemistry to an art.
He would accept students into his N.E.W.T. classes only if they had achieved an 'Outstanding' mark at their O.W.L. examination. He felt that anyone with a lower mark than that would lack the passion and the devotion to the complex and demanding subjects that would follow in the last two years of school. Though strict, Snape had an obvious bias for Slytherins, giving them undeserved rights over the others, while looking down on the other students somewhat unfairly. His interpersonal relations with students outside his own house were subpar at best. He would, on numerous occasions, bully students without any repercussions. Though, one might dispute if his distain for Neville Longbottom was more about bullying or about the fact Voldemort had chosen to target the Potters over the Longbottoms, and if he'd picked the Longbottoms instead, Lily Potter would perhaps still be alive. He once threatened to poison Neville's pet toad, Trevor, or tell Neville how stupid he was. Once he even told Hermione Granger that her enlarged teeth were the same size as usual, neither of which were necessary behaviours.
Snape in his classroom preparing a Potions lesson
Snape's role during this entire time was extremely sensitive and required master espionage and image-control skills. As he and Dumbledore anticipated that Voldemort would return eventually, and many of Snape's actions would be reported on by Death Eater spies or gained through torture and Legilimency, even if Snape's true mentality and intentions were inaccessible to the Dark Lord, he had to consider every decision and relationship carefully. He treated Harry Potter with maximal coldness and never missed an opportunity to cause him trouble, as any variation from this would have cast suspicion on him in Voldemort's eyes.
But in reality, he protected Harry on numerous occasions; he was happy enough to cause the boy, who resembled his father, Snape's hated rival from school days, humiliation and trouble, but never any actual harm or danger as he was still Lily's son. He also had to avoid becoming too aware of Voldemort's plans, so as to avoid being held responsible for allowing Harry and his friends to foil them. His actions during this period created no mistrust on the part of Voldemort, which allowed for Voldemort's ultimate downfall.
Snape at the Welcoming Feast
Closing in on the first half a decade of his tenure as an instructor at Hogwarts, Professor Snape was present at the Start-of-Term Feast of the 1984–1985 school year, during which he was introduced to the new first-years as the Head of Slytherin House during the Sorting Ceremony. He witnessed the sorting of, among others, the younger sibling of Jacob, who was sorted into the same house as Jacob and of whom he became immediately suspicious.
During the very first day of teaching the first years, he instructed the newcomers in the correct way in which to brew a Cure for Boils, during which he made no attempt at hiding his dislike for Jacob's cognate, and openly favoured Merula Snyde, a student in his own house and whose parents had been among his own comrades during his time as a Death Eater, presumably both due to his bias towards his own house, as well as part of maintaining his cover as a future double agent. Throughout the year, he proceeded to teach this class, among other things, the Wiggenweld Potion, the Herbicide Potion and the Sleeping Draught. Throughout the term, however, Professor Snape found himself reluctantly acknowledging the said student's talent.
At that time, there was unfinished business between Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde, since Merula tried to attack Rowan Khanna, Ben Copper and Jacob's sibling; so both of them were trying to be prepared for the inescapable duel; as Jacob's sibling's prefect had told them, they needed to learn an offensive spell, an advantage charm, and a healing potion or charm. Both of them were looking forward to the Wiggenweld Potion and Snape's class. Snape's favourite student, Merula, asked him to teach the class the potion, though coincidentally Snape had already planned to teach it, as Rowan had notified Jacob's sibling earlier. When the class brewed their potions, Snape admired Jacob's sibling's potion skills, though he admired Merula's more.
Snape in the 1980s
Sometime later, Snape and the school's Charms Master Filius Flitwick were made aware of how there were to be an unsanctioned duel between Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde in the Clocktower Courtyard, arriving just in time to see the latter successfully deprive their opponent of her wand. Although Professor Filius Flitwick wanted to know who it was that cast the first spell, keeping in mind that Jacob's sibling had been instructed to only ever use the Disarming Charm defensively, Snape was largely dismissive of who started the fight.
After subtly criticising his colleague, whom he correctly deduced were the one who had instructed said student in how to cast the Disarming Charm in the first place, he ordered both students to get cleaned up and meet up at the West Tower in order to receive punishment for their transgression.
Upon reporting the incident to Albus Dumbledore, Snape asked for Jacob's sibling to be expelled, whom he regarded as a troublemaker just like their brother before them, a request the Headmaster rejected, and which he would soon thereafter lament about in the presence of both Jacob's sibling and Snyde. Although he docked twenty points from the former's house, he was interrupted by the caretaker of the day, Argus Filch, before he could do anything else. Upon being informed about an incident that had occurred that demanded his immediate attention that was related to the Cursed Vaults, Snape ordered both students to return to their common rooms.
Accompanying the caretaker to a corridor on the fifth floor, Mr Filch explained that he and his pet cat, Mrs Norris, had discovered how cursed ice had appeared in one of the rooms there. Immediately recognising this as one of the curses unleashed when someone had tampered with the Cursed Vaults, Snape immediately ordered Filch to lock the door and stand guard to prevent students from getting inside, before he left to inform the Headmaster. In the aftermath of this discovery, the faculty successfully managed to keep it from spreading any further and securely sealed up the room afterwards, although he was unaware the two students he had just left had followed them and overheard portions of his conversation with Filch and resolved to break into the room in order to look for clues regarding the whereabouts of the vaults.
Snape speaking with Jacob's sibling
During the Herbicide Potion lesson, Merula made a mistake, and Jacob's sibling helped her to fix it. Unbelievably, when Snape understood it, he awarded Jacob's sibling with 10 points.
Throughout the rest of the year, he presumably continued to keep a sharp eye on the students, especially Jacob's sibling, and do everything he could to keep the discovery from the student body, in which he was ultimately unsuccessful.
Also he wanted to harvest the fairy wings for his potion ingredients. Rubeus Hagrid asked Jacob's sibling to move fairies to another place, so it happens to be a quest for them to save the fairies' wings. Jacob's sibling set out to move the fairies, though a fairy had gone to the Potions Classroom. Penny Haywood went to the classroom in order to help Jacob's sibling and the fairy as well. They thought of Jacob's sibling distracting Snape while Penny tried to make the fairy co-operate, while Snape believed she was looking for her favourite quill that her mother had given her. It is possible that Jacob's sibling distracted him with asking about Bottling Fame, or his hair, or about his well-being.
At the Hallowe'en feast, Jacob's sibling needed some Aconite for the Wolfsbane Potion in order to help the werewolf Chiara Lobosca. Rowan Khanna distracted Snape to allow Jacob's sibling to steal from his store of ingredients.
Snape and McGonagall freeing Ben Copper from the cursed ice
Around the beginning of the year, Snape assisted Professor McGonagall with using the Fire-Making Spell to free Ben Copper from the cursed ice. At some other point early on in the year, Snape became livid when a first-year mentioned Harry Potter in class, and hurled a jar of pickled animal parts at him. During the Teacher Appreciation Celebration that year, Snape was interviewed by Penny Haywood.
After these events, Snape searched Jacob's sibling's dormitory and found some potion ingredients that were useful against the Cursed Vaults, so he asked them in the classroom to explain it in order to defend themselves, though it was revealed that the evidence was a plot carried out by Merula.
Jacob's sibling finding a transfigured note
Snape continued his job as Potions Master at Hogwarts, and tried to prevent students' interference in the Cursed Vaults. He ordered Argus Filch to retrieve Jacob's note, which was an untransfigured black quill, from Jacob's sibling.
Jacob's sibling stole the black quill, and with the help of Tulip Karasu, became one step closer to the third Cursed Vault. Tulip also helped them find their brother's corridor at Hogwarts, although it was protected with a two-lock padlock and an Anti-Alohomora Charm. Since Tulip had the key to one of the locks, and the other one was in the possession of her former friend, Merula Snyde, they took the key from her after letting off a Dungbomb. When they opened the door, Jacob's sibling confronted a Boggart in the form of Lord Voldemort. In time, Severus Snape found them and warned Jacob's sibling that they had to let go of the Cursed Vaults unless they wanted to share Jacob's fate - expulsion.
During Jacob's sibling's career advice to William Weasley, they took him to Professor Snape's classroom, in order to seek advice about potioneering. Professor Snape asked them to brew an original potion, so he'd be able to make his decision according to their performance. It's unknown what Jacob's sibling chose to brew, though it was either a Contortion Potion, a Screaming Potion, or a Stamina Potion. After the potion was brewed, at least one of them drank it on Snape's order, as "drinking the potion is the only way to measure your success" according to Snape. The poorly brewed potion made the drinker sick, thus Snape questioned Bill's potioneering skills.
This year began with an old untrustworthy enemy of Severus, and also an old classmate of his, Patricia Rakepick, a Curse-Breaker from Gringotts Wizarding Bank, arriving at Hogwarts, invited by Albus Dumbledore.
Rakepick and Snape talking while standing next to a sleepwalking student
Jacob's sibling became to suspect Madam Rakepick, therefore they accosted Snape, in one of the Potions study sessions, and asked him about the new Curse-Breaker. After the session, he told them about Rakepick and the fact that she couldn't be trusted and how dangerous she was. Though he called it unwise to question Dumbledore's judgement without substantial evidence, as the Headmaster trusted Rakepick.
A little while later, when Jacob's sibling was planning to fly to the next Cursed Vault in the Forbidden Forest, Professor Snape broke Jacob's sibling's borrowed broomstick and sought an unexpected help from Jacob's sibling with revealing Rakepick's true intention. In addition to Snape's unexpected request, he revealed an unexpected fact, telling them that Rakepick had been monitoring and spying Jacob's sibling ever since she arrived at Hogwarts. Thus he asked them to spy on her.
Jacob's sibling spied on her many times while taking orders from Snape, although Snape admitted them spying on her was totally useless, since she said whatever she wanted Severus to know and also she knew they were spying. Nevertheless, he warned them not to tell any of this to anyone.
He also gave Jacob's sibling a Garrotting Gas that would later save their and Merula's life from Rakepick's Cruciatus Curse in the Buried Vault.
At the end of the year, Madam Rakepick won the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor title against Snape.
Snape's robes being set alight with this charm
This year began while Snape's hatred of Rakepick was more intense than ever.
During Jacob's sibling's search for the fifth Cursed Vault and the Marauder's Map, he faced Peeves multiple times. One of these times they were searching for a friend of Jacob's, Duncan Ashe. Peeves mentioned that he, Duncan Ashe, hated two things, potions and Jacob, though he loathed Jacob more than potions, so Jacob's sibling went to Snape, in order to gather information about Ashe. Snape revealed to them that he never liked the Marauders and somehow disappointed them. In addition of their searches, Penny Haywood, one of the victim's sister, was very concerned about the Cursed Vaults that she would not do what she was gifted in - potioneering. Therefore, Severus, who though she would have a good career in potioneering, although due to what happened to her sister Beatrice, his mind had changed and somehow he was disappointed. A fair warning from him to Jacob's sibling would make them think about Miss Haywood. And this would help Haywood and Jacob's sibling control themselves and try to find a way to break the last curse and free both Jacob and Beatrice.
Though, on Dumbledore's order, he was willing to help Jacob's sibling with mastering Legilimency and Occlumency. Thus, Jacob's sibling was taught by Severus Snape, a decent Legilimens and Occlumens. Severus Snape asked them to defend themselves against him casting Legilimens on Jacob's sibling, and he also revealed some of their secrets. And he believed that Jacob's sibling had not even tried to not let Severus get into his thoughts, and thought it settled the fact that Jacob gave them visions from a far distance. He also demanded them, twice, to cast the spell on him, and this proved to Jacob's sibling the power of Occlumency.
Later, while inventing the Star Shower Spell, Jacob's sibling went to Merula and Professor Snape. While Professor Flitwick approved of their spell, it was later revealed that this was not the Star Shower Charm but Star Shimming Charm. Professor Snape perceived the issue and helped Jacob's sibling fix this.
Snape was also seen with Poppy Pomfrey and Albus Dumbledore while coming in order to take see what has happened to Merula Snyde after Rakepick's betrayal in the Buried Vault.
Madam Rakepick was seen while using Lacarnum Inflamari on Snape's cloak.
During Jacob's sibling's mental examination on Scabbers for his odd behaviour, Percy Weasley, Charles Weasley, and Jacob's sibling met each other multiple times at the Great Hall. Because they had Scabbers, Snape warned them that a rat must not be in the Great Hall. The second time, when Jacob's sibling's rat was also present, and while there was a fight between Charles and Percy, Snape asked them "kindly" to discuss their "nothing" somewhere else without disturbing anyone; though because of his perfect sense of smell, he smelled some rats, though both of the rats escaped; when Snape left, the students searched for Scabbers and Jacob's sibling's rat, and after they found them, they continued their research. Their research ended up with Silvanus Kettleburn suggesting borrowing Rat Tonic from Professor Snape in order to calm the rat from the anxiety he had because of an unknown source of fear. After convincing Snape, he helped Charles and Jacob's sibling with instructions and ingredients, and they brewed the potion. Percy arrived with Scabbers, and with the presence of Snape, Jacob's sibling finally understood that what the rat feared was the professor, unbeknownst to them his lifelong enemy.
This school year began with Snape's old enemy, Madam Rakepick, being fired after her betrayal.
This year at Hogwarts was also as dangerous as the other years, or perhaps more so. Not so later from the start of the year, Beatrice Haywood found a Petrified student because of the statue curse. Thus, she notified the Potions Master, Severus Snape, and then they notified Jacob's sibling and their examination result was that the Petrified student had some texture, the same as the Merpeople Trident that he found in the Buried Vault. Also Professor Snape was seen while he was talking about the statue curse with Headmaster Dumbledore.
Madam Rakepick used to store so many dark and cursed items in her classroom, after her betrayal and expulsion, Argus Filch, collected her cursed items and Severus Snape took the items from the caretaker in order to break their curses. While Jacob's sibling was searching for the items, they and Merula Snyde found Professor Snape while brewing Veritaserum; and he told them that he was unable to break the curses, therefor he gave them to the only one who could break the curses - Headmaster Dumbledore.
Severus Snape, once had been ordered to retrieve Jacob's sibling when Madam Poppy Pomfrey was Petrified with the Statue Curse, and unfortunately, it meant that there was no one to take care of the Petrified students or the students that had any kind of illness. So after an announcement taken by the Headmaster, students had to visit Snape or Sprout, if they had any kind of symptom of illness. He most likely he taught the students the Cough Potion after her Petrification, because of Dumbledore's announcement.
Snape was introduced to the Brazilian exchange student Alanza Alves by Jacob's sibling in his classroom that school year, whom would be joining his sixth-year Potions class. Snape was in the midst of a conversation in his classroom with Argus Filch and Madam Pince, where he informed them that Ashwinder eggs and Occamy eggshells had gone missing from his stores (which Beatrice Haywood had stolen to brew Felix Felicis with). Snape was also rather displeased to be informed by Alanza that her potions had a tendency to explode.
During this year, Jacob's sibling requested Snape for some Floo powder, which they needed to enter the British Ministry of Magic via the Floo Network for their work experience programme there. Snape was at the time engaged in a one-sided conversation with Arif Sikander in his classroom, the Muggle Studies professor, who was talking to him about Muggle chemistry, which Snape had no time for. Snape gave them the powder and told them and Sikander to leave, rudely telling them he could stand either of them.
Snape also taught seventh-years how to brew the Wolfsbane Potion for the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures when no alternative presented itself, as part of their work experience task of helping the Ministry locate a fugitive werewolf.
Snape examined the hair care potion Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution when it became clear its users were suffering from memory loss, for Jacob's sibling and Penny Haywood on their Ministry business. He discovered the potion contained potent memory loss powers, and that it contained the Forgetfulness Potion as its base, with lavender and valerian as its ingredients. He also agreed to help then develop the counter-serum for it, once he had determined all of its ingredients. He later helped Penny and Jacob's sibling complete the counter-serum.
Snape also analysed a pitcher that contained Pumpkin juice for Jacob's sibling to see if contained remnants of the Alihotsy Draught, which could explain the laughing curse affecting St Mungo's, but Snape found no traces of the potion, much to their displeasure.
Snape sitting with Quirinus Quirrell and Rolanda Hooch at the start of the 1991–1992 school year
In 1991, Nicolas Flamel, a famous alchemist and friend of Albus Dumbledore, had the Philosopher's Stone that was keeping him alive moved from his safe in Gringotts to Hogwarts for safekeeping. Snape contributed to the defences set up around the magical artefact by adding a Potions Riddle as one of the obstacles, and the only obstacle that used logic as a key factor instead of magic.
At the same time, Harry Potter became a student in Snape's classes, and the two of them detested each other almost immediately. Harry's resemblance to his father and his acquired 'celebrity' status brought the worst out of Snape from their very first Potions lesson. Although Snape had pledged an oath to Dumbledore that he would protect Harry, such an oath did not stand in the way of Snape's bias to Slytherin House, nor did it mean Harry was to get any special treatment in academics.
Throughout the year as part of his promise to Dumbledore, Snape did everything he could to prevent Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor Quirinus Quirrell from helping Lord Voldemort obtain the Philosopher's Stone, having seen him as what he was and at least knew he was helping Voldemort, if not also being aware of Voldemort possessing Quirrell. By 31 October, the turbaned Professor, sure enough, made his first move by letting a Mountain troll into Hogwarts Castle as a diversion. Snape took this chance to stop him from sneaking into the restricted third-floor corridor where the Stone was being hidden in the midst of the chaotic event, only to get bitten in the leg by the corridor's three-headed guard dog, Fluffy.
Snape saving Harry's life during a Quidditch game
When Quirrell made his first attempt on Harry's life by jinxing his new broomstick during the boy's first Quidditch game, Snape intervened again by performing a counter-curse to prevent Harry from being hurled off. Unfortunately, Hermione Granger observed the crowd through binoculars to figure out who was performing the jinx and caught Snape discreetly uttering the counter-curse incantation, but erroneously thought he was performing the actual curse. So she ran to his stand and set fire to his robes in order to distract him and make him stop, and luckily for Snape, she accidentally knocked Quirrell over during her hurry back to the Gryffindor stands, causing him to break the eye contact necessary for performing his spell correctly.
For the next match, Snape insisted on refereeing to make sure it did not happen again. This did not come across well to the other teachers, who believed that he was just trying to injure the Gryffindor Quidditch team's chances of winning.
Snape confronting Quirrell during the night
Snape intensely confronted Quirrell in the Forbidden Forest on the night after the match, demanding to know why he was after the Philosopher's Stone. Unbeknownst to them both, Harry was watching the entire argument from the treetops, having followed his Potions teacher into the forest on his broomstick after passing him at the school Quidditch shed. But because the boy suspected Snape of plotting to steal the stone and of attempting to kill him, it seemed to him that the Potions professor was trying to intimidate Quirrell into handing over information regarding the artefact.
Harry, Ron Weasley and Hermione unjustly tried to be supportive and encouraging to Quirrell whenever possible by telling people off for laughing at his stutter, smiling at him encouragingly whenever they passed him or arguing with Snape.
Snape was present at the End-of-Term Feast that year. He was initially very pleased to see that Slytherin had won the House Cup again, but was forced to shake McGonagall's hand with a forced smile after Dumbledore's additional house points to Harry, Ron, Hermione and Neville Longbottom meant that Gryffindor had won instead.
Harry Potter and Ron Weasley in Snape's office after being seen by Muggles driving the Flying Ford Anglia
During the beginning of the school year in 1992, Snape learned from the Evening Prophet that Muggles spotted Harry and Ron travelling to Hogwarts in the Flying Ford Anglia, instead of on the Hogwarts Express. Knowing the severity of their deeds could very well cause them to be expelled, which would put Harry in great danger as he would lose Dumbledore's protection, Snape took matters into his hand and confronted them when they had landed, where he severely berated them for their breach of one of the most sacred laws of their world and pretended to call upon Professors Dumbledore and Minerva McGonagall to make them solve this situation. It was as Snape wanted: Dumbledore ensured they would not be expelled and Minerva punished them instead by giving them a warning and separate detentions.
Regardless of his desire to uphold Lily's memory, Snape considered the punishment too lenient and retaliated by allowing the Slytherin Quidditch team to unfairly usurp the Hogwarts Quidditch pitch during the Gryffindor team's practice time. This was in order for them to train Draco Malfoy as their new Seeker. Later on in the year, Harry, Ron, and Hermione successfully managed to smuggle Polyjuice Potion ingredients from Snape's personal cabinets. They did this by creating a spectacle of a diversion in his classroom, which involved a firecracker and the Swelling Solution that was being made in class.
He was utterly furious at the mess and made it clear that he knew it was Harry who had caused it considering the way he looked at him, with Harry referring to having felt Snape read his mind, strongly indicating Snape used Legilimency on him. However, he was forced to let Harry go again as Dumbledore had made it clear to him that no other punishment but being expelled would be dealt out to Harry if he broke another rule and Snape could not let his anger overpower his desire to see Lily's son be protected.
Snape preparing to duel Lockhart during the first and last Duelling Club meeting
During this year, Professor Snape also worked with the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Gilderoy Lockhart, in running the Duelling Club. In this period, he quickly visibly showed a large amount of irritation and anger at Professor Lockhart who would remain, evermore, the teacher of the subject he most cherished. Snape took a certain amount of enjoyment in blasting him against a wall with the Disarming Charm and looking ready to murder him on the spot to the point that even Lockhart was intimidated enough to stop annoying Snape.
He ensured that Harry would be engaged with Draco instead, but interfered when Harry and Draco practically checkmated each other, with Harry using the Tickling Charm on Malfoy and was subsequently hit by the Dancing Feet Spell. Although he gave Malfoy the instruction needed to conjure a snake and relished the fact that Harry was alone to face the large angry snake, once Harry showed his Parseltongue ability, Snape quickly interfered to avoid too much of a problem on Harry's part by vanishing the snake and allowing him to be escorted out of the Great Hall by his friends but looked at him suspiciously before he left.
Lockhart irritating Snape on Valentine's Day
Lockhart would only further irritate Professor Snape during Valentine's Day, where he held a party to celebrate it as Snape looked on particularly dreadfully to the point he looked as if he had been forced to take multiple Skele-Gro and Snape did not hesitate to look utterly infuriated when Lockhart cheerfully asked the students to make Snape brew for them Love Potions to the point he clearly shot a warning look to them that he would force-feed anyone who dared to ask him to poison. Snape was very likely among the professors who were highly irritated by the Cupids Lockhart unleashed upon Hogwarts as they kept getting in the way of lessons.
Snape and other staff members discovering that Ginny had been taken into the Chamber
This hatred for Lockhart finally reached its apex when Professor Lockhart walked in upon their discovery of Ginny being taken to the Chamber of Secrets, as even Snape was genuinely concerned for her regardless of how he treated Gryffindor, and furiously led the teachers into forcing him out of the way so that students could be escorted to safety, outright not giving Lockhart even a second to rebuke Snape's claim of having heard Lockhart proclaim that he had found the monster. Snape was also responsible for the brewing of the Mandrake Restorative Draught in order to cure all those petrified by the Serpent of Slytherin that terrorised the school that year.
By describing the Polyjuice Potion in Potions class (which Hermione remembered), and demonstrating the Disarming Charm to the Duelling Club, Snape taught Harry two skills that ultimately proved critical to his success.
Snape teaching a DADA lesson on werewolves
During this school year, Snape demonstrated his expertise with potions by brewing the complex Wolfsbane Potion for the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Remus Lupin. Throughout this year, Snape suspected that Lupin may be helping Sirius Black, an escapee from Azkaban, enter Hogwarts castle. This suspicion stemmed from Lupin's friendship with Sirius and Harry's father James Potter when they were all at Hogwarts as students. It is revealed that Sirius once played a joke on Snape, telling him that he could find out where Lupin was going every month if he climbed into the Whomping Willow. James realised the danger and saved Snape's life by pulling him back.
Snape confronting Sirius and Lupin in the Shrieking Shack
Near the end of the school year, Snape ambushed Black as he entered the school again and attempted to apprehend him, believing him to have been the one who had betrayed Lily to Voldemort. Snape appeared from under the Invisibility cloak that Harry had left near the Whomping Willow, tied Remus up, and while engaged in a vociferous argument with Harry and Hermione, he attempted to arrange to send Sirius and Remus to Azkaban Prison.
However, before he could give Sirius and Remus to the Dementors, Harry, Ron, and Hermione simultaneously used Expelliarmus on Snape. Snape also said that Harry, Ron, and Hermione faced suspension for being out-of-bounds. Since Harry aided Black's escape, Snape was beside himself with indignation. On the last day of school, he revealed to his students that Lupin was a werewolf, forcing Lupin to resign his post.
Snape and others' reactions after Harry Potter was selected as the fourth Triwizard champion
Snape was apoplectic when Harry's name was unexpectedly chosen from the Goblet of Fire. Despite the fishy circumstances surrounding the incident and the immense dangers that Harry was facing, Snape refused to believe that he did not deliberately enter himself in for the Triwizard Tournament. Indeed, he continued to treat Harry as maliciously as ever, thinking that he had broken into his office to steal ingredients that would aid him in the underwater phase of the tournament.
Harry later discovered that Snape was once a Death Eater but had been vouched for by Dumbledore. Dumbledore told the Wizengamot that although Snape had indeed worked for Voldemort, he changed sides and turned spy against him. Dumbledore reassured Harry that Snape's loyalties were genuine, though he refused to tell Harry why.
Harry was not the only one who had expressed scepticism over Snape's reform. Professor Moody had Snape's office searched at the beginning of the year, claiming that it was an "Auror's privilege" and that Dumbledore mentioned being watchful of him. Snape was resentful of Moody's accusations but could not do anything about it. (In truth, Moody was actually an impostor who had been raiding Snape's cabinet for ingredients to make Polyjuice Potion.)
Karkaroff showing Snape his Dark Mark
Despite Snape's unawareness of the real reason why Harry was in the tournament, it had not escaped his notice that Lord Voldemort's mark was becoming increasingly more pronounced throughout the year. Karkaroff, who dreaded retribution from Voldemort, panicked and confided his fears in Snape. Karkaroff attempted to talk to him numerous times throughout the year, but Snape had no sympathy for him and offered no help. Karkaroff consequently fled when the Dark Lord returned, but Snape, who remained in the Dark Lord's good favour with the information he could provide on Dumbledore, had nothing to fear from him in the term of retribution. In fact, he appeared to have been waiting for Voldemort's return more than ever this year, as he and Dumbledore were conversing about it.
Snape using his Dark Mark as proof that Voldemort had returned
After the Third Task and the Rebirth of Lord Voldemort, Barty Crouch Jnr took Harry to Moody's office. Crouch Jnr started to question Harry about what had happened but was shortly rescued by Professors Dumbledore, McGonagall, and Snape. Soon the effects of Crouch Jnr's Polyjuice Potion wore off; in the excitement, he had neglected to take it at the proper time to maintain his cover. Under the effects of Veritaserum provided by Professor Snape, Crouch described Lord Voldemort's plan to resurrect himself and Crouch Jnr's own involvement in getting Harry to the graveyard.
Dumbledore and Snape attempted to convince a disbelieving Cornelius Fudge that Voldemort had returned. Snape was finally told the truth about Sirius's innocence and was forced by Dumbledore to shake hands. He was subsequently sent on a secret mission by Dumbledore to rejoin the Death Eaters and spy on the Dark Lord as a double agent.
During the 1995–1996 school year, with Voldemort having returned to his body, Snape carried on with his work as a double agent for Dumbledore. During the summer, he was seen at 12 Grimmauld Place giving reports to the Order of the Phoenix. Snape frequently taunted Sirius about the latter not being able to take an active role in the Order's missions due to his fugitive status.
Harry's first Occlumency lesson with Snape
Back at school, Snape's allegiance to the Order had no effect on his dislike for Harry. When Harry began having visions about Lord Voldemort, Dumbledore asked Snape to teach Harry Occlumency in order to shut down the telepathic connection. However, mutual hostility made it difficult for them to work productively during the sessions. Indeed, Snape had to be very careful in the ways that he helped Harry, should Voldemort read Harry's mind and discover his servant working against him.
At one point, Harry peeked into the Pensieve when Snape was out of his office and witnessed a private memory of Snape being viciously bullied and harassed by Harry's father. Upon returning, Snape grabbed him roughly by the arm and threw him out of the office and forbade him from ever coming back again. For all the rest of that semester, he treated Harry with redoubled contempt and fury and ignored him in class whenever possible.
"He's got Padfoot at the place where it's hidden."
Towards the end of the school year, Dolores Umbridge captured Harry and questioned him on the whereabouts of Dumbledore. She sent for Snape to provide Veritaserum to force Harry to reveal any information he may be hiding. Snape claimed that his supplies of Veritaserum were exhausted earlier, when she had attempted to use the drug surreptitiously to force information from Harry (however, it is highly likely that he lied). As a result, Snape withheld further assistance.
It is later revealed that Snape had actually given Umbridge a fake potion during her prior attempts. Upon hearing Harry's cryptic warning about Sirius's capture, he swiftly carried the message back to the other Order members, and helped come up with a plan for them to come to the rescue in the Department of Mysteries while he searched the Forbidden Forest for Harry. But since Umbridge was near, he pretended to ignore it. However, despite the fact that Snape came to his aid multiple times throughout the year, Harry hated him as much as ever, due to believing that Snape's goading spurred Sirius into joining the battle.
Snape slowing the curse that was placed on Gaunt's ring as it slowly spread through Dumbledore's body
In July 1996 Dumbledore had been afflicted by a powerful curse cast on Marvolo Gaunt's ring, one of Voldemort's Horcruxes, prior to the start of Harry's sixth year at Hogwarts. Although Snape's knowledge of the Dark Arts enabled him to slow the spread of the curse, the curse would have ultimately killed Dumbledore within a year. Dumbledore, aware that Voldemort had ordered Draco to kill him, asked Snape to kill him instead as a way of sparing the boy's soul and of preventing his own otherwise slow, painful death.
Although Snape was reluctant, even asking about the impact of such an action on his own soul, Dumbledore implied that this kind of coup de grâce would not damage a human's soul in the same way murder would. Furthermore, once Snape had done the deed, he would gain Voldemort's complete trust and learn more of his plans. Snape agreed to do as the Headmaster requested.
Snape and Narcissa Malfoy making an Unbreakable Vow, with Bellatrix Lestrange as the bonding agent
Shortly after that, Snape was visited by Bellatrix Lestrange and Narcissa Malfoy at his home in Spinner's End. Narcissa's son Draco had been given a difficult task by Voldemort, and Narcissa swore Snape to an Unbreakable Vow, on pain of death should he break it, that he would protect Draco, help him complete Voldemort's task, and finish the task himself if Draco failed. When questioned by Bellatrix about his loyalties, Snape claimed to have been working for Voldemort (rather than for Dumbledore) ever since Voldemort's return, and explained his actions in the previous years in that light. In addition, he pointed out that Dumbledore's protection had kept him out of Azkaban and free to operate on Voldemort's behalf.
At the start-of-term feast at Hogwarts, Dumbledore announced he had finally appointed Snape as Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts, much to Harry's shock and displeasure. Snape was no less severe in teaching Defence than he had been with Potions, although he did allow students who achieved below 'Outstanding' at O.W.L. level to enter his N.E.W.T. classes. Having finally acquired the position he desired for so long, Snape taught the lessons with a tone of passion for the Dark Arts he sought to undo, something he did not do for Potions. He also became less biased, as he allowed Hermione to answer his question (as opposed to three years ago, he insulted her for being "an insufferable know-it-all"), and sentenced Crabbe and Goyle to detention for dissatisfying progress in their repeated fifth year.
Snape offering Draco Malfoy assistance with his mission
Horace Slughorn, a retired Hogwarts teacher, replaced Snape as Potions Master. Slughorn loaned Harry an old Potions textbook, in which Harry found marginalia including helpful tips on how to make potions better, and a variety of curious spells seemingly invented by an unknown student. The book was inscribed "This Book is the Property of the Half-Blood Prince". With the help of the notes, Harry quickly became the best potion-maker in the class and Slughorn's favourite student. Snape, however, was suspicious when he heard about Harry's newfound success, maintaining that he "never had the impression that [he] had been able to teach Potter anything at all".
In the spring, Snape met with Dumbledore on the outskirts of the Forbidden Forest and wanted to know more about the private lessons between Albus and Harry. Not knowing that they were overheard by Hagrid, Snape burst into resentment that Dumbledore trusts Harry more than him. Dumbledore only ordered Severus to look after Draco even more, after Ron Weasley has been poisoned. Albus also invited him for an evening visit in his office. When Snape arrived and learned that Harry had to die, he showed outrage and ultimately showed that he still after all these years loved Lily by revealing his Patronus to be a doe, the same as Lily's.
Snape healing Draco's wounds
Later, in a fight with Draco, Harry cast one of the Prince's spells marked "For Enemies" (Sectumsempra) and was horrified when it caused devastating wounds to Draco's face and chest. Snape rushed to the scene and healed Draco's wounds, and then interrogated Harry about the source of the spell. When Harry refused to tell him anything, Snape demanded that he bring him all of his books. Harry hid the Prince's book and gave Ron Weasley's copy of the book to Snape instead.
Snape punished Harry by giving him a detention every Saturday for the rest of the year, including during the final Quidditch match of the season. Fearing of exposing himself as the inventor of the curse that injured Draco, Snape did not outright expose Harry's cheating in Potions to Slughorn or the rest of the staff, thus resulting in a punishment much more lenient than usual, which Professor McGonagall saw as something very lucky for Harry.
Snape proving his loyalty to Dumbledore by ending the Headmaster's life as requested
Before leaving with Dumbledore to find a Horcrux, Harry discovered from Professor Sybill Trelawney that it had been Severus who overheard the Prophecy and told it to Voldemort, thus causing Voldemort to hunt Harry and his parents. Despite this and Harry's angry questions, Dumbledore maintained that he trusted Snape. After returning to Hogwarts with the Slytherin Locket, Harry and Dumbledore flew to the school's Astronomy Tower.
Gravely weakened by Voldemort's potion, and the school being under attack by Death Eaters, Dumbledore asked Harry to fetch Snape for him. Before Harry could leave, Draco arrived and disarmed Dumbledore, intending to carry out Voldemort's ordered assassination. Draco was unable to bring himself to commit the murder, however, and Snape killed the headmaster himself.
"You dare use my own spells against me, Potter? It was I who invented them — I, the Half-Blood Prince!"
An enraged Harry (who had been immobilised by Dumbledore for his own protection and had witnessed the killing while under his Invisibility cloak) chased Snape, Draco, and the Death Eaters as they fled the castle. The two of them engaged in a fierce duel, which became increasingly one-sided. Snape easily blocked Harry's attempts to attack him and jeeringly pointed out Harry's mistakes, but refused to strike back. However, he became enraged when Harry called him a coward and began using his own spells against him, resulting in him blasting Harry back against the ground.
During the confrontation, Snape also revealed himself to be the "Half-Blood Prince" (being the son of Tobias Snape, a Muggle, and Eileen Prince, a pure-blood). Harry was unable to stop Snape before the latter passed through the school gates and Disapparated.
Snape attending the Death Eater meeting at Malfoy Manor
After killing Albus Dumbledore and fleeing the school, Snape once more rejoined the ranks of the Death Eaters. In the summer of 1997, Snape informed Lord Voldemort that Harry was to depart from his relatives' house four days before his birthday. On Dumbledore's orders, Snape told the Death Eaters the correct date so as to continue Voldemort's trust in him.
Severus watching as Nagini devoured Charity Burbage
Snape then fed Mundungus Fletcher the idea of using seven decoys of Harry Potter during his movement to a place of safety so that when the Death Eaters arrived, they would not know who the real one was. In order to be consistent in his own role as a Death Eater, Snape confunded Fletcher so that he would not remember who told him.
Because of Severus's information, when the Order of the Phoenix moved Harry from Privet Drive they were ambushed by Death Eaters, and the Battle of the Seven Potters ensued. During the battle, Snape accidentally sliced George Weasley's ear off with Sectumsempra while aiming at another Death Eater.
Shortly after the battle, Severus visited 12 Grimmauld Place where, in Sirius Black's bedroom, he found Lily Potter's letter. Snape had cut off the letter and took the page, which contained Lily's signature and love. He also cut off the picture of Potter family and took the page, which contained Lily, for himself.
The Daily Prophet reporting Snape's appointment as Headmaster
During the 1997–1998 school year, Snape was named Headmaster of Hogwarts, while Death Eaters Alecto and Amycus Carrow were appointed Deputy Heads. Snape used his position as Headmaster to discreetly protect the students and to contain the Carrows. It is later understood that, during his time as Headmaster, Snape consulted with the portraits of the previous Headmasters, and continued to receive instructions from Dumbledore's portrait.
Before the beginning of the first term, Rufus Scrimgeour removed the Sword of Gryffindor from its glass case in the headmaster's office for examination, along with the other items Dumbledore left in his will. However, this sword was a fake. The real sword had been hidden in a hole in the wall behind Dumbledore's portrait.
When its counterfeit had been returned to Dumbledore's office, another attempt to seize the sword was made by Luna Lovegood, Neville Longbottom, and Ginny Weasley. After pretending to punish them by sending them into the Forbidden Forest with Rubeus Hagrid, Snape passed the fake sword along to Bellatrix Lestrange, who kept it in her vault at Gringotts, thinking that it was real.
Harry being led by a doe Patronus (Snape's Patronus) to the hiding place of the Sword of Gryffindor
Upon being informed by the portrait of Phineas Nigellus Black of Harry Potter's whereabouts, Dumbledore's portrait instructed Snape to give Harry the real sword without the latter knowing it. Not only would Harry not have taken kindly to Snape's appearance after his attack on George Weasley and also for the murder of Dumbledore, of which Harry was an eyewitness, it would have been dangerous if Voldemort were to read his mind and see Snape helping him.
Snape then took the real sword, hid it in a frozen pool of water near Harry's camping spot, and used his Patronus to guide Harry to it. After having rescued Harry from drowning, Ron claimed to have supposedly seen someone watching from the shadows. Though not stated, it is extremely likely to have been Snape keeping an eye on Harry and only departing once he knew the latter was safe.
As a headmaster, Snape was thoroughly disliked by many of his students. The old members of Dumbledore's Army reformed the organisation after Lord Voldemort gained control over the school and started up a revolt against Snape and the Carrows. Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood, and Ginny Weasley were at the forefront of the rebellion. Snape, following up on his promise to Dumbledore to keep the students safe, subtly undermined the violent, sadistic attempts of the Carrows to keep control by doing things such as sending students to help Hagrid as punishments rather than the Carrows' more dangerous alternatives.
Neville stated that Snape was hardly ever seen whilst headmaster. This could be because Snape remained in the headmaster's office most of the time or was searching for/following the trio to make sure they were safe and/or making progress. Also, during his tenure, the Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four was re-enacted and students had taken to (most likely under Snape's orders) marching from point A to point B together like they were in military school.
Snape duelling McGonagall
Harry, Ron, and Hermione returned to Hogwarts Castle in search of one of the last of Voldemort's Horcruxes, which they believed to have something to do with Rowena Ravenclaw. The only idea they could come up with was Ravenclaw's lost diadem, and so Harry and Luna Lovegood went to the Ravenclaw Common Room to get an idea of what the diadem looked like. Here they were met by Alecto Carrow, who pressed her finger to the Dark Mark and summoned Voldemort. Amycus Carrow arrived, but so did Minerva McGonagall.
The two began fighting, and while Snape put up a good defence, McGonagall's attack was beginning to overwhelm him, for he was forced to take refuge behind a suit of armour when McGonagall gained the upper hand with daggers. She was soon helped by the arrival of the other Heads of House: Sprout, Flitwick, and Slughorn. Outnumbered, Snape fled the castle, jumping out the window of a classroom and using the ability to fly without a broom, which he presumably learned from Voldemort.
Nagini injecting the venom into Snape's neck, killing him
Later in the evening, Snape was summoned by Voldemort to the Shrieking Shack. Voldemort explained that he believed that Snape was the master of the Elder Wand from killing Dumbledore and that Snape must die so that the Elder Wand can be his. Snape tried to explain the situation, but Voldemort ordered Nagini to kill Snape by biting into his neck, injecting him with her extremely poisonous venom, before he could finish speaking. Before dying, Snape released a cloud of memories and told Harry, who had watched the entire scene from a hidden spot, to take them.
Harry later took the memories to the Pensieve in Dumbledore's office. From these memories, Harry learned everything about Snape's past. In the first scene, Harry discovered that Snape had befriended Lily as a nine-year-old child when they lived near each other in the industrial town of Cokeworth.
Snape's memory of Lily being sorted into Gryffindor
Upon their arrival at Hogwarts, the Sorting Hat placed Snape and Lily into Slytherin and Gryffindor Houses, respectively. They remained close friends for the next few years until they were driven apart by Snape's interest in the Dark Arts and by Lily's interest in James Potter. The friendship finally ended following the incident that Harry had briefly witnessed in his fifth year, in which Snape accidentally insulted Lily. Despite this separation and Snape's enmity toward Lily's eventual husband James Potter, Snape continued to love Lily on a much deeper and stronger romantic level for the rest of his life.
Snape was next seen going to Dumbledore and desperately begging him to hide the Potters from Lord Voldemort, who was planning on targeting Lily's son to prevent a prophecy from being fulfilled. Snape had been the one who previously revealed said prophecy to Voldemort, not knowing at first that it was referring to Lily and her family. Though he asked Voldemort to spare Lily, Snape still feared for her safety, as he knew that Voldemort could not be relied on to grant this small favour. Snape became a double agent for the Order of the Phoenix so that Dumbledore could ensure Lily's protection, employing Occlumency to hide his duplicity from his master.
Snape felt devastating pain and remorse when Lily was found and murdered. From that point on, he agreed to help Dumbledore protect her son and fight against Lord Voldemort. Snape demanded, however, that his feelings about Lily be kept a secret. Dumbledore complied and never told anyone the real reason why Snape switched sides.
Marvolo Gaunt's ring with a curse that was slowly killing Dumbledore
Snape's memories then revealed that Severus slowed the spread of the curse afflicted on Dumbledore after the latter put on Marvolo Gaunt's ring. However, the curse would have ultimately killed Albus within a year. Dumbledore, knowing that Draco Malfoy was ordered by Voldemort to kill him and expecting the boy will fail, asked Snape to kill himself instead of Draco in order to gain Voldemort's complete trust and learn more of his plans.
At the end, Snape's memories showed Snape's outrage after learning that Harry had to die. Snape ultimately revealed his Patronus, a doe, the same as Lily's, showing he still, after all these years, loved her.
Because of the memories, Harry finally understood where Snape's true allegiances always were. The memories provided Harry with the information he needed to ensure Voldemort's final defeat. He also showed Harry the memory where Albus Dumbledore had told him about Harry himself being a Horcrux (although he did not understand it) because Dumbledore had asked him to pass that along to Harry when the time was right.
The final duel between Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort
During the final duel between Harry and Voldemort, Harry finally told him that Snape had been, in fact, Dumbledore's man. Harry also revealed that Snape was never the true master of the Elder Wand because Snape never defeated Dumbledore; the two had arranged his death, as he would have died either way. Before Snape killed Dumbledore, Draco Malfoy disarmed Dumbledore. Therefore, Draco was the true master of the Elder Wand, not Snape.
However, Harry had overpowered Draco at Malfoy Manor and taken his wand. Because of the subtleties governing wand ownership discussed by Garrick Ollivander, Harry was the current master of the Elder Wand. Snape's true loyalties remained hidden due to his skills as an Occlumens and the fact that his actions were motivated by love, which completely eluded Voldemort. Successfully defeating both Voldemort and Nagini, Harry and Neville avenged Snape's death.
Professor Snape's portrait.
Snape's portrait was not automatically put into the Headmaster's office since he had essentially abandoned his post during the Battle of Hogwarts. However, Harry, in one of his acts of showing reconciliation towards Snape, made sure that his portrait was placed there. It is possible that Harry gave his corpse a proper burial after the war ended. Rita Skeeter also published a book about Snape's life, entitled Snape: Scoundrel or Saint?, sometime after his death. If it is consistent with Skeeter's other works, it is probably riddled with inaccuracies designed to tarnish Snape's reputation.
Albus Severus Potter, the second son of Harry, and the only one of Harry's children to have inherited Lily's bright green almond-shaped eyes, is named after Snape. When Albus was worried that he may be Sorted into Slytherin, Harry responded that Albus was named after two headmasters, one of whom was a Slytherin and "probably the bravest man I ever knew".
Severus Snape teaches in the alternate timeline
By his fourth year at Hogwarts, Scorpius Malfoy had learned all about Snape's history and motivations, allowing him to convince an alternate version of Snape — in a timeline where Voldemort won the Battle of Hogwarts and thus ruled wizarding Britain — that he came from a different timeline so that Snape could help Scorpius meet the local resistance and undo what he had unwittingly done to the past.
This version of Snape correctly guessed that he had died in the struggle against Voldemort in Scorpius's timeline, on account that the boy was evidently surprised to see him alive in the altered timeline, but proceeded to aid him nonetheless; if anything, Severus merely expressed annoyance that he apparently met his end at the Dark Lord's hands in the original timeline. After knocking down Dolores Umbridge to allow Scorpius Malfoy to escape, he was attacked by the Dementors, leaving his fate unknown.
Severus Snape
Severus Snape was a thin man with sallow skin, a large, hooked nose and yellow, uneven teeth. He usually dressed in flowing black robes which made him resemble "an overgrown bat". He had shoulder-length, greasy black hair which framed his face in curtains, curling lips and dark, penetrating eyes that resembled tunnels. As a Death Eater, he bore the Dark Mark on his left inner forearm.
The younger Snape had a "stringy, pallid look", being "round-shouldered yet angular" and with a "twitchy walk that recalled a spider", as well as "long oily hair that jumped about his face".
Snape had a strong, authoritative presence. He spoke in a soft, contained voice most of the time, except during the occasional instances when he lost his temper.
His first Potions class with Harry and the rest of the students, where he lectured Harry in front of the class for "not paying attention" when he was taking notes
A complicated, withdrawn person, Severus Snape's life was overwhelmed with many complex emotions that he never fully disclosed. At times, Snape could appear cold, cynical, malicious, bitter, and sarcastic. He had a commanding presence that exuded gravitas, authority, and control; like Professor McGonagall, he had the ability to keep a class quiet without effort. He tended to hold grudges and was extremely spiteful toward those whom he disliked. In particular, he disdained Gryffindor students, considering them to be arrogant and attention-seeking. Descriptions of his social interactions as a child suggest that he had poor interpersonal skills and that he may have suffered from depression.
Snape was a repressed, solitary man with no friends. In his early life, he was insecure, vulnerable, and yearned to be part of something better. As a child, the bleak normality of working-class suburbia compounded with his neglectful Muggle father inspired in him a contempt for ordinariness. This urgent desire to be a part of something powerful and important was what drew him to Lord Voldemort's inner circle. Snape's bitterness and resentment towards the world was exacerbated even more by the relentless bullying he endured in school, causing him to shut himself in even more.
Snape was not a prejudiced individual despite the Death Eater beliefs of pure-blood superiority, but he was rather against Muggles, presumably because of his sour experience with both his father and Petunia Evans, but he held no ill-will towards Muggle-borns. The foundation of him scolding Lily Evans by calling her Mudblood was to not appear weak in front of his fellow Death Eater students than actual supremacist views. He also deeply regretted this, as it was what ended his friendship with Lily and defended Hermione Granger when Phineas Nigellus Black called her Mudblood, his manner of speaking in this instance being uncharacteristically explosive and filled with more emotion than he normally displayed.
Snape threatening Harry after an Occlumency lesson
He was an intensely private individual who viewed emotional displays as a sign of shameful weakness. As an Occlumens, Snape had superb emotional control and was adept at concealing his thoughts and feelings, which allowed him to maintain his cold, collected demeanour. However, he had his limits, and was not incapable of losing his temper, particularly when it came to dealing with Harry Potter. Inevitably, he also became furious when he thought he was being pitied or accused of cowardice.
Snape was a formidable sorcerer, displaying consummate skill in many different branches of magic. His extensive knowledge and abilities were rivalled by very few, if any other witches and wizards of his age. Snape was also unusually cerebral for a wizard, possessing a subtle and keenly analytical mind. As a result, Snape was extremely intelligent and calculative, with a mind for strategy and deduction. He was also a profound misanthrope who appeared to have a prominent hatred of almost every child under his tutelage, except of course for Slytherins. He valued logic and cunning above magical power.
Snape slapping Ron Weasley over the head with a book for laughing
As a professor, Snape was known for his cavalier and harshly authoritarian attitude towards his teaching. His standards for his classes were much higher than that of the other professors, as he only allowed students with the very best grades to continue into advanced study. As Potions Master, he described it as an art and an exact science, and he dismissed the use of incantations and wand waving as "silly and foolish". He developed a loving passion for Dark Arts, originally in the hopes to cover the shame of his heritage, and his interest in it led him to repeatedly apply for the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor post every year despite being rejected for sixteen years.
Snape knew full well why Dumbledore never granted him the position, as it may be a trigger to bring out his worst side, something he denied to Umbridge's questioning but let in to those of Bellatrix's. When he finally got his wish, Snape taught the course with a loving caress in his voice, far beyond simply respecting the Dark Arts as a dangerous foe, something he did not show in his post as the Potions Master. He also taught this class slightly fairer than he did in Potions, such as lowering his entrance standards and biases for N.E.W.T. level classes, allowing more students to enter the advanced studies of his favourite class, and placed students from his own house, such as Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle, in detention for failing to do acceptable work the second time around after failing their O.W.L. the previous year.
Snape showing Dumbledore his true and undying love for Lily Potter
Ultimately, it was Snape's past and his love for Lily Evans that defined his inner being. His love for Lily Evans became most noticeable by his Patronus; a Doe, just like Lily's. Upon overhearing the Prophecy, he immediately informed his then-master of its contents, unaware that this would endanger Lily and her family. It was only after Lily's death that Snape realised the full extent of his actions. He suffered terrible remorse for what he had done and spent the rest of his life in constant danger in order to protect Lily's son.
In spite of his vindictive demeanour, Severus Snape was an immensely brave man who possessed a deep capacity for love. Everything that he did in the latter part of his life was motivated by his devotion to Lily Evans, whom he loved unconditionally. He was one of Dumbledore's most reliable allies and, in his role as a double agent, took great personal risk in ensuring Harry's safety from Lord Voldemort. Despite his years of him and Harry barely getting along, if at all, Snape openly criticised Dumbledore after learning he protected Harry all these years just so he could die at the right time due to being a Horcrux, showing he didn't agree with Harry's death even though, at first, he only protected him because of his relationship to Lily. When he informed Dumbledore that he informed Voldemort of the prophecy, Snape begged Dumbledore to hide Harry, Lily, and even James too. This clearly showed that Snape prioritised Lily's happiness above all else, even if it meant her being with a man he hated for most of his life.
Despite his coldness towards all but Lily, Snape nevertheless proved capable of genuinely caring for others apart from Lily and Harry. He showed that despite his mistreatment of them, he cared considerably for the students of Hogwarts, risking his façade for them by secretly doing everything he can to make sure they stayed out of harm's way and at one point being genuinely concerned when a student was taken to the Chamber of Secrets. Additionally, Snape was also genuinely saddened by the death of Rowan Khanna, his face just as mournful as the rest of the other House Heads, and if Rowan were in Slytherin, Snape even went as far as to plead with Merula to stop being angry and comfort them with the prospect of standing together in the face of crisis.
Snape's temper and brand of discipline toward Gryffindors
While he initially resented Dumbledore for his lack of intervention on his torturous bullying by the Marauders, it seemed the time he spent allying with Dumbledore had made him grow to genuinely as well as greatly respect and even care for him, as shown by how he was clearly shocked into being silent for a long time after Dumbledore asked Snape to kill him, clearly indicated that killing Dumbledore was hard for him to do and tried to make him have Draco kill him instead of having Snape do it. Even after learning of how Dumbledore had wanted Harry to die so Voldemort can be defeated, when preparing to kill Dumbledore, his face was described as being genuinely hateful and disgusted of what he was about to do.
Despite Snape's normally calm and controlled exterior and guarded body language, he was in possession of an extraordinarily explosive and almost psychotic temper. This was rarely seen, but an extreme display of rage was most prominently witnessed after Snape killed Dumbledore and was confronted outside of Hagrid's burning house near the edge of the school grounds. The event that triggered this unhinged manifestation of Snape's unrestrained wrath was Harry's accusation of Snape being a coward for killing Dumbledore.
Due to the many years of being bullied by Harry's father and with a need to both vent his immense stress and maintain his cover as a loyal Death Eater, Snape unleashed a terrifying mix of both his emotions and magic in his duel with Harry, taking great pleasure in torturing and punishing the son of his enemy. Unlike in the past where he spoke quietly in his anger, Snape in this instance was screaming and letting so much out as well as confessing his identity of the Half-Blood Prince to Harry, who had attempted to use one of Snape's own invented spells against him. This battle showed Snape's repressed rage in its horrific glory and power. Suffice it to say, Severus Snape was not a man who it was wise to provoke, lest one incur his almost elemental wrath and magical power.
Severus Snape's corporeal Patronus (the form of a doe)
Severus Snape was an extremely powerful and skilled wizard, showing proficient talent and great knowledge in many different areas of magic. He had an encyclopaedic knowledge and proficiency in potions, was incredibly talented in Legilimency and Occlumency, and was also the only Death Eater capable of producing a Patronus.
Snape in a duelling demonstration during the first meeting of the Duelling Club
Snape never regarded the place where he grew up as a home. Rather like Voldemort and Harry, Hogwarts was his real home. It is likely that he suffered neglect as a child. His parents seem to have had a dysfunctional, even abusive, relationship. This troubled, lonely childhood is strongly suggested to have accounted for his severe demeanour, depression, sadness, bitterness, and bouts of rage, as seen later in his life.
Despite having a father who disliked the wizarding community, Snape was quite skilled with magic before he even received his Hogwarts letter. Sirius Black would later remark that, when they first arrived at school, Snape knew more curses than many of the seventh-year students. It does seem that he had a slightly better relationship with his witch mother. During his school years, he nicknamed himself the "Half Blood Prince". In addition, it is quite likely Eileen gave her son most, if not all of his school things. His sixth-year Potions book was, according to Harry, at least fifty years old.
Since at least 1996, Snape was staying in his family's home during the summers between school years. It is unknown what happened to his parents. As he was only thirty-six years old in 1996, his parents may well have been alive but moved away and left the house to him. His salary as a Hogwarts professor probably made it possible for him to afford other lodging during summers, but his childhood memories of Lily may have stopped him from abandoning the house.
Lily Evans, his once best friend and love of his life
Snape's friendship with Lily Evans was probably the only thing that truly brought joy to his life. He first met Lily at a very young age, recognising her as a witch one day as she and her sister Petunia played in the park near his house; she had flown off the swings and made a flower grow from a sprout. Longing to escape his humiliating home life, Snape immediately sought to make her his friend. Despite the fact that Lily came from a Muggle family, he never truly saw her as being one of them because he was so smitten with her.
They spend time talking about magic and the wizarding world. Lily even asked if being Muggle-born mattered in the Wizarding world. Snape responded that it did not matter at all. In 1971, the two of them were accepted into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and continued a close friendship up until around their fifth year despite being sorted into different houses. Snape was very disappointed that they were not in the same house and forlorn because of it.
During this time, Snape began hanging out with people who embraced Dark Magic and pure-blood supremacy, which put a huge strain on their friendship. Lily was offended by many of the views that Snape was beginning to adopt and disliked the qualities that his new classmates were bringing out in him. Given time over again, Snape would never have done many of the things he did, but at the time he did not truly understand her aversion. He was so insecure and blinded by his attraction to the Dark side that he imagined she would find it impressive if he became a real Death Eater. Ironically, Lily might have grown to love Snape romantically (she certainly loved him as a friend) if he had not loved Dark Magic so much and been drawn to such loathsome people and acts. When Snape called Lily a "Mudblood" in a moment of humiliation, it was the last straw for Lily. When she later asked him if he still intended to become a Death Eater and he did not deny it, she severed all ties with him despite Snape's profuse apologies.
Lily and Severus talking by the riverside
When Snape overheard the Prophecy, he immediately relayed its contents to the Dark Lord, not knowing that it would have anything to do with Lily. Upon discovering that Lord Voldemort was planning on targeting the Potter family, Snape pleaded with him to spare Lily in exchange for her husband and son. He later appealed to Albus Dumbledore, asking him to do everything in his power to protect Lily and the rest of her family, if he had to.
Snape was devastated by Lily's death to the point of sinking into a depression that seemingly lasted the rest of his life. However, at Dumbledore's behest, he became committed to protecting her son Harry and assisting him in defeating the Dark Lord. Snape never spoke of Lily to anyone again, except for Dumbledore. This was likely due to heartbreak and worry that mention of her might make others suspicious. Even though he constantly slandered James to Lily's son's face, he alienated Lily from these attacks entirely, possibly due to his inability to ever insult her again. Indeed, Snape's Patronus was a doe, just like Lily's, because he loved her throughout his entire life. As Snape died, he asked Harry to look into his eyes; his last wish in his final moments was to die looking into the same green eyes that reminded him so much of Lily.
As a result of Snape's sacrifice of his own life, Lily's son Harry would name her second grandson after Snape. Coincidentally, that grandson would inherit Lily's green eyes.
The Marauders, his school bullies and enemies
The Marauders were a group of four Gryffindor boys, with whom Severus began a relationship of enmity and hatred throughout their school years. The group consisted of James Potter, Sirius Black, Peter Pettigrew, and Remus Lupin. Severus and the first two Marauders detested each other almost instantly upon meeting for the first time in a compartment on the Hogwarts Express. Throughout their times at Hogwarts, James and his friends (except for Lupin) bullied Snape ceaselessly, Pettigrew only did it though because James and Sirius did it. Lupin did not encourage the harassment, but he did not try to stop them, either. Snape, in turn, never lost an opportunity to get one up on them whenever possible.
However, James Potter ended up saving his life when Sirius told Snape how to get into the Shrieking Shack. Snape caught a glimpse of Lupin transforming into a werewolf before James pulled him back through the tunnel. Snape did not think James was acting nobly. Rather, he saw it as being more of a self-serving act in order to avoid him and the rest of the Marauders being expelled from Hogwarts, and the incident only made him resent James more than ever. He also came to resent Lupin, believing that he had been in on Sirius's prank.
The Marauders bullying Snape during their time at Hogwarts
During their seventh year at Hogwarts, Lily and James began dating, which probably fuelled Snape's hatred of him even more. James always suspected that Snape had deeper feelings for Lily, which factored strongly into his behaviour towards him. Snape's continued bitterness toward the Marauders, even into adulthood, became apparent in 1993 when Remus Lupin was given the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts professor at Hogwarts despite Snape and Dumbledore both knowing that he was a werewolf.
During the time that Harry Potter attended the school, Snape delighted in comparing Harry to his father and telling him that he was not the great man he liked to believe he was. Although Snape's descriptions of James's teenage self were accurate, Snape purposefully omitted even vague descriptions of the noble person James became. Snape mostly felt bitterness and resentment towards Remus Lupin and took to dropping hints about his being a werewolf in the hopes that the students would catch on. However, it should be noted that, despite Snape's strained relationship with the Marauders, he dutifully concocted potions for Remus Lupin during his tenure at Hogwarts and attempted to save his life during the Flight From Little Whinging. Lupin was the only one of the Marauders who could interact with Snape at least on a perfunctory level when they were adults. Lupin, like everyone, believed Snape an evil, cowardly servant of Voldemort's after Snape killed Albus Dumbledore, and he died before learning the truth.
Snape confronts Sirius Black at the Shrieking Shack
Snape held an especially strong enmity towards Sirius. Although Snape's hatred towards Sirius for the humiliation he put him under alongside James in their Hogwarts years was already great, the fact that Sirius apparently was the Marauder who betrayed Lily to Voldemort made him hate Sirius even more than he did with James. He was eager to be the one to hand Sirius over to receive the Dementor's Kiss after he broke out of Azkaban, and he was furious when he managed to escape yet again. After Sirius's innocence was proven, however, Dumbledore insisted that the two of them shake hands and ally together against Voldemort.
Nevertheless, they remained barely capable of civilly conversing, as both of them still resented each other and Snape, in particular, taunted him about his uselessness to the Order while confined to his mother's house, which escalated in Sirius nearly challenging Snape to a duel, which Snape was eager to and would have gladly accepted had the Weasleys not barged in. However, Sirius himself admitted he felt ashamed of his previous treatment and did not at all enjoy the reminder of the reason for Snape being humiliated due to Sirius being bored in their fifth year. Snape also, even if begrudgingly, accepted that they were fighting for the same side and was quick to check if Sirius was in fact safe after Harry reported to him that he saw Sirius tortured by Voldemort and in the Ministry to be forced to retrieve the object.
Although Snape's relationship with Pettigrew in their school years was already hostile, upon knowing he was the Marauder who truly betrayed Lily, he most likely became the Marauder Snape resented the most. Although forced to keep his dislike as best as he could due to his job as a double-agent for Dumbledore, Snape seized his chance to torment Pettigrew when the Dark Lord later assigned Pettigrew to work as his assistant, treating him like a slave, forcing him to clean his house and serve food to his guests, clearly intent on making sure that Pettigrew would not experience any comfortableness while under his command. Snape also seemed to enjoy threatening Pettigrew by telling Voldemort that he desired more dangerous assignments whenever he would protest his position as Snape's servant.
In an ironic twist, despite their mutual antipathy, James's second grandson would be named after Snape years after the deaths of Snape and the Marauders.
Harry Potter, his former student and the person he sought to protect
From the day Harry set foot in Hogwarts, he and Snape loathed each other. Despite the fact that Snape was committed to honouring Lily's sacrifice, he could not bring himself to judge the boy objectively because of his connection to James Potter, who bullied him in his school days. Indeed, Snape was filled with nothing but contempt and bitterness towards Harry, who simultaneously reminded him of both Lily and James. Harry served as living proof of the fact that Lily had given her love to someone else, and Snape wasted no time in comparing him continually with his father.
During Harry's time at Hogwarts, Snape treated Harry viciously, both in class and out. He frequently derided the boy's abilities, bullied him in class, and punished him whenever possible. He was also resentful and even somewhat envious of Harry's popularity, which he also equated with Harry's father. Although Snape threatened to have Harry expelled more than once, he never attempted to follow through — presumably because it would have led to Harry losing the protection surrounding him. However, never did he forget that Harry was also Lily's child, and, much beyond bureaucratic rules, this led him to put the boy's safety in the most critical situation. When he learned that Dumbledore had intended for Harry to die all along, Severus remained horrified, seeing it as a calculated betrayal to Lily's memory.
When Harry helped Sirius Black escape, their relationship went under further strain since Snape believed at that time that Sirius betrayed Lily to Voldemort whereas Harry had learned of his innocence, although Snape continued to put Harry's safety first. During the brief period in which Snape gave private Occlumency lessons, Snape relished in forcing Harry to relive his worst memories. During the early years, Harry associated Snape with his abusive and bullying ways, but when Sirius died, Harry took a savage pleasure in blaming Snape for having taunted Sirius about being useless, causing him to leave his hiding place and join the battle.
Though Snape came to the aid of the Order as swiftly as possible, Harry blamed Snape mainly to ease his own guilty conscience about the entire incident. However, this was nothing in comparison to the retroactive rage Harry felt upon finding out that Snape was the one who relayed the Prophecy to Lord Voldemort, causing him to hunt down Harry and his family. When he later killed Dumbledore, the hatred between them was sealed almost as personally as between Harry and Voldemort.
Snape looks into Harry's eyes as he dies
As he lay dying, Snape told Harry to look at him and died looking into Lily's eyes. Following this, Harry was given access to all of Snape's concealed memories, which brought the former teacher's true intentions and more human side to light. When Harry discovered the love Snape had for his mother and the constant danger he put himself in to ensure his safety, he forgave him despite Snape's often cruel treatment of him.
By adulthood, all of Harry's hatred of Snape seemed to have vanished and it looked as though he had never harboured it at all. This could be seen through his request that a portrait of Snape be hung in the Headmaster's office at Hogwarts, which was not done immediately after Snape's death since he had abandoned his post. Furthermore, Harry gave his youngest son the name "Albus Severus", and told him that his Slytherin namesake was "the bravest man I ever knew."
Another aspect of Snape's highly visible, almost cartoonish mistreatment of Harry is that he knew all his actions might one day be reported to Voldemort by Death Eater spies. He did nothing that would create the image of real sympathy or loyalty to Potter or any of Voldemort's former adversaries, only curt professionalism towards his colleagues, obedience but not true loyalty to Dumbledore, and utter hatred for Harry. His need to behave this way was redoubled when it became clear Voldemort could use legilimency to read Harry's mind and, in doing so, view any action by Snape in view of Harry.
Ironically, the two shared many similarities that neither of them was aware of. Both were black-haired, half-blood wizards who grew up among Muggles. Both of their Muggle caretakers were cruel to them (Snape's father was implied to be abusive to Snape and his mother, while the Dursleys were neglectful towards Harry). Both Snape's and Harry's childhoods involved Petunia Evans (Snape was friends with Petunia's sister Lily while Harry was Petunia's nephew and was raised (albeit reluctantly and abusively) by her). Both grew up wearing secondhand clothes (however, Snape was likely forced to wear them due to his family's poverty while Harry's relatives simply refused to afford any major expenses on him). In addition, the two grew up virtually friendless until attending Hogwarts (Snape due to his unstable family life and secondhand clothes and Harry due to his relatives isolating him).
Upon entering Hogwarts, Snape and Harry were bullied, in Snape's case, by the Marauders (who were led by James Potter), and Harry by (ironically) Snape himself and by Draco Malfoy among others. Furthermore, both had at least one near-death experience during their Hogwarts: Snape was nearly killed in an abortive prank by the Marauders while Harry repeatedly had Voldemort attempting to kill him. However, both Snape and Harry had at least one silver gleaming: their genuinely intense and close romantic attraction to a redheaded teenager (Lily Evans and Ginny Weasley, respectively). Of course, while Snape did not marry Lily (who had married James and mothered Harry), Harry himself did marry Ginny (with whom he had a son named Albus Severus).
In the second alternate timeline created by Scorpius Malfoy and Albus Potter, Scorpius revealed to Snape the predicament he had caused among other things. It is founded that Snape was extremely saddened and disappointed in his failure to protect Harry from Voldemort in the final battle and was also engaged in assisting Scorpius in fixing the timeline so Harry was alive and Voldemort defeated. One of the details he revealed after convincing Snape of his tale was that in his timeline, Harry had named his second son after him. This deeply touched Severus, who later told Scorpius to convey to Albus in the original timeline that he is proud that the boy carries his name and legacy, feeling a part of time he will never experience for the greater good of the world. He died without hesitation for the better world that Scorpius sought to restore, knowing his purpose could finally be served. Snape once again died for the legacy of his love, showing the kind of man he was at heart.
After the original timeline was restored, Harry visited Cedric Diggory's grave with Albus, describing his son's two namesakes — Dumbledore and Snape — as very much alike, despite their sorting into different houses: "great men, with huge flaws, and you know what - those flaws almost made them greater."
Ron Weasley and Hermione, two Gryffindor students he often disdained
Snape criticised Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger whenever possible, most likely because of the fact that they were friends of Harry as well as being Gryffindors. Although Snape seldom found anything wrong with Hermione's work and marked her grades accordingly, he never awarded her house points and sometimes accused her of being an "insufferable know-it-all". Despite this, Snape saved their lives in 1993 when Professor Lupin had transformed into a werewolf at the full moon and, even after they had stopped being his students, continued to assist the three of them in their quest to destroy the seven Horcruxes (without them being any the wiser, of course).
It is unknown how Ron and Hermione reacted to the revelation of Snape's loyalty, though as Harry recounted Snape's memories, they were described as shocked. There's also no mention of them protesting Harry and Ginny naming their (Ron & Hermione) nephew after Snape, which might indicate they came to forgive and admire him.
Albus Dumbledore, his former headmaster
Snape's relationship with Dumbledore was one of close but not indefinite trust. Dumbledore was Snape's headmaster whilst at Hogwarts and was presumably impressed with Snape's academia and abilities. Snape likely felt no real loyalty to Dumbledore as a student and may have resented the latter's failure for stopping the torturous bullying Snape received at the hands of the Marauders. Despite this, he agreed to keep Remus Lupin's lycanthropy a secret when the headmaster ordered him (though likely out of self-serving reasons). Before allying himself with Snape, Dumbledore viewed him with, in his own words, disgust, for the latter's selfishness.
After having accidentally put Lily's life in jeopardy by delivering a prophecy to Lord Voldemort (without knowing at the time that it was referring to her son), Snape turned to Dumbledore to keep her safe. Dumbledore chose to capitalise on Snape's remorse and initiated him into the Order of the Phoenix as a double agent. He also gave Snape the job of Potions Master and Head of Slytherin at Hogwarts at the tender age of 21.
As a spy for the Order, Snape silently kept his place within the ranks of the Death Eaters while informing Dumbledore about their movements. He also adopted the role of secret agent for Voldemort and supplied him with strategic scraps of information about the Order. The content of these reports was often dictated by Dumbledore. It is implied that Snape withheld little, if any, information from Dumbledore that was relevant to the Order's success while Snape deliberately did the opposite for Voldemort.
Snape resented Dumbledore's secrecy and was offended by this perceived lack of faith in his abilities. However, when Snape discovered that Dumbledore had intended for Harry to die all along, he was horrified, seeing it as a calculated betrayal of Lily's memory. Dumbledore clearly underestimated the depth of Snape's feelings, and, years later, was very surprised to learn that he still maintained his devotion.
"I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, Severus..."
In 1996, Dumbledore became aware of Voldemort's plan to kill him. Knowing Voldemort expected Draco Malfoy to fail and assuming Snape to be Draco's successor, Dumbledore assigned Snape the task of killing him when the situation arose. Snape was genuinely reluctant to do this and even stated when Dumbledore stated that it was necessary to protect Draco's soul that his soul may very well be damaged from such an act. Even with the revelation of Dumbledore's true plans for Harry, Snape hesitated for a time before carrying out his mission, his face being described as holding disgust and hatred for himself for what he was about to do, showing Snape had grown to genuinely care for the Headmaster. Dumbledore also entrusted Snape with protecting the students once Hogwarts fell into Voldemort's control.
In spite of their mutual trust in each other, Dumbledore never allowed Snape his coveted position as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. It was claimed that he did it so that Snape wouldn't experience a resurgence of "old habits". The truth may, in fact, be that Dumbledore believed the post to be jinxed by Lord Voldemort after he failed to attain the post, and this jinx had prevented any teacher from lasting beyond a year. To place Snape in such a position might have risked his safety, and Dumbledore would not have permitted such a risk in case he required Snape's aid against Voldemort again. When Dumbledore was infected by the curse on Marvolo Gaunt's ring, he asked Snape to kill him. Knowing that such an act would vilify Snape beyond any doubt in the mind of the Wizarding public, Dumbledore allowed Snape the position because he would have to leave immediately anyway.
Petunia Evans
Snape first met Petunia Evans during their childhood. She was the sister of Lily Evans, but Petunia was a Muggle, unlike her sister. Snape and Petunia strongly disliked each other from the first moment they met. Petunia, who was contemptuous of anything out of the ordinary, viewed him with disdain because of his poor economic status and because he was such an oddball. Snape, on the other hand, regarded her balefully because she was a Muggle and because she made disparaging comments about his clothes. It is unknown how Petunia reacted to (or if she even ever knew about) Snape calling Lily a Mudblood, but it can be assumed that this incident caused Petunia to hate him even more.
Ironically, Petunia's and Snape's negative encounters with each other as children and adolescents helped lay the foundations for their respective adult personalities. It is possible that Petunia's interactions with Snape exacerbated her already growing disdain for the Wizarding world and eventual estrangement with Lily. Likewise, Snape's antipathy towards Petunia helped fuel his dislike towards Muggles in general, causing him to experiment with Pure-blood supremacy and the Dark Arts, culminating in his recruitment in the Death Eaters. Even more tragically, Snape's actions as a Death Eater caused Petunia's sister Lily to be murdered by Voldemort, which in turn caused Petunia to grudgingly adopt (and abuse and neglect) her nephew Harry Potter.
Years after Snape's death, one of Petunia's great-nephews would be named after Snape. It is unknown if she had known about this, given how she likely severed contact with Harry after he left her house.
Lord Voldemort, his former master turned enemy and eventual killer
In his days as a Death Eater, Snape was one of Lord Voldemort's most trusted and devoted servants. In 1980, Snape overheard part of a prophecy foretelling Voldemort's downfall. After being caught, Snape hurried to tell Voldemort what he had heard, unaware that his information was incomplete. However, he turned against the Dark Lord the moment he decided to target Lily Potter.
When Voldemort returned to physical form in 1995, Snape ostensibly returned to him as a spy for the Order. Using Occlumency, Snape was able to close his mind, hide his true allegiance and maintain his cover as a faithful Death Eater. Snape was one of the only Death Eaters to have the Dark Lord's complete trust and, after he murdered Albus Dumbledore, he became Voldemort's most trusted adviser. He was held in such high regard that Voldemort accepted making him Headmaster of Hogwarts after seizing power.
However, Voldemort coldly had his snake, Nagini, kill Snape in 1998, believing it would make him the true master of the Elder Wand. Although he claimed he regretted its necessity, he felt no remorse over murdering one of his most faithful advisors. After Snape's death, Harry Potter revealed to Voldemort that Snape had managed to deceive him for years because he acted entirely out of love for Lily Evans — something Voldemort neither understood or cared about. Indeed, at the time Snape asked Voldemort to spare Lily's life, he erroneously believed that Snape's interest in her was merely physical, and callously stated that there were other women "of purer blood, worthier of him" after her death. Voldemort also reacted with indifference to Snape's true loyalties, as Voldemort mistakenly believed that Snape's death made Voldemort the master of the Elder Wand. This error soon cost Voldemort his own life while ensuring that Snape's sacrifice was not in vain.
It is possible that part of the reason Voldemort put so much trust in Snape was because he identified with his background. Both were the only children of Muggle fathers and pure-blood mothers (Voldemort: Tom Riddle Snr and Merope Gaunt; Snape: Tobias Snape and Eileen Prince). Both Muggle men had nothing but hatred for their sons and wives and neglected their sons, and, as a consequence, both Riddle and Snape yearned to shed their unhappy beginnings. Voldemort's father had abandoned his wife when she was pregnant with their son while Snape's father was abusive towards his wife and their young son. Both Riddle and Snape claimed greater identification with their maternal lineage than with their paternal ancestry — the Gaunt family and Prince family, respectively. Both men grew up in poverty — Voldemort grew up in an orphanage while Snape lived in Spinner's End.
In addition, both Riddle and Snape were Sorted into Slytherin and were known for their intelligence. Both men had a passion for the Dark Arts and blood purity during childhood and bestowed grandiose titles onto themselves (Riddle was known as Lord Voldemort while Snape adopted the name the Half-Blood Prince). Both saw Hogwarts as sort of a real home as opposed to their default home. In addition, both men kept a book related to the Dark Arts in their sixteenth years — Voldemort had the diary that he converted into a Horcrux while Snape had a Potions textbook that he used to write original magic. Lastly both were part of a gang of future Death Eaters who bullied their fellow students. Voldemort may have seen him as a trusted Death Eater who shared the same hatred for his father as he had for his own. The only major thing that differs between Voldemort's and Snape's relationships with their fathers is murder; Voldemort had murdered his own father while Snape did not murder his. Voldemort must have also recognised Snape as a powerful and intelligent wizard, traits which would manifest as usefulness to his ideology.
However, there were other differences between Snape and Voldemort. Snape had a secret love for Lily Evans for most of his life, which motivated him to defect from the Death Eaters and protect her son after her death at Voldemort's hands. Voldemort, on the other hand, disregarded love as a weakness that was beyond his comprehension, and had allegiance to only himself. This had coincidentally led to his own undoing. In addition, unlike Voldemort, Snape had known about the existence of the wizarding world before he was eleven years old (likely due to the fact that Snape's mother was actually present in his childhood).
Snape possessed the ability of independent flight, which was presumably taught to him by Lord Voldemort, as he displayed the same ability during the Battle of the Seven Potters. This shows that Lord Voldemort had a great deal of trust in Snape as he taught him a very unique ability, something he might not have done with any other Death Eater.
The Weasley family
The Weasleys had a neutral if not unkind relationship with Snape. The Weasleys were blood-traitors, supporters of Muggles and Muggle-borns, and opposed to the Dark Arts, all things Snape held opposite views towards as a Death Eater. Snape had relinquished most prejudices after switching sides, though it is unknown if Snape was still loyal to the Death Eaters when Fabian and Gideon Prewett were killed or if he had defected before their deaths. Both events occurred in 1981.
The Weasleys, like Snape in his youth, were profusely financially strained. Molly and Arthur had left Hogwarts before Snape started but knew him through their membership in the Order. They seemed to, like most, trust him because Dumbledore did. Little is known about their relationship, although Molly, at least, did not let Snape's maltreatment of her children staunch her respect for him as a teacher. Given Molly was a good potioneer, this could have helped her find some common ground with him.
Snape taught seven Weasleys at Hogwarts. Bill and Percy, despite being Gryffindors, earned many O.W.L.s and N.E.W.T.s, showing Snape did not forsake his professionalism for his bias. Despite this, Ginny mentioned once that Bill and Snape did not get along when Bill was a student. There was, in fact, only a decade separating Snape and Bill. Fred and George irked Snape profusely with their pranks and disinterest in school work. Interestingly, they were their generation's Marauders, map and all, and as such Snape may have viewed them as a reincarnation of his childhood bullies. It is mentioned the twins got many detentions and house point losses which were likely Snape's doing.
Ginny was the final Weasley to attend Hogwarts before Snape's death and she bore a remarkable resemblance to Lily. She was also the only remaining Weasley at Hogwarts during Snape's time as headmaster and co-lead the reformed Dumbledore's Army, unknowingly allying herself with Snape. Notably Snape seemed as worried as the other teachers when Ginny was taken into the Chamber of Secrets.
Ron knew of Snape's treatment of students before attending his classes, likely hearing it from an older sibling indicating a long string of antagonism between Snape and the Weasley children. Snape's murder of Dumbledore in close conjunction of Bill being maimed by Greyback and accidently maiming George gave birth to the family's hatred of him. However, when the war was over, the Weasley's learned of Snape's true loyalties and likely grew to respect & admire him. A new member of the family was eventually named for him.
Lucius and Draco Malfoy, whom he was on good terms with
Snape appeared to be on good terms with the Malfoy family. Lucius Malfoy was a Slytherin prefect when Snape began attending Hogwarts, and the two ran in the same social circles, which included other future Death Eaters. Snape and Lucius likely worked together as Death Eaters during the First Wizarding War. It's unknown if Lucius was suspicious of Snape's true allegiance, though he most likely believed Snape to be truly loyal to Voldemort. Lucius continued to think and speak well of Snape later in life. Perhaps because of this, Snape also favoured Lucius's son Draco. Draco seemed to look up to Snape, once sycophantically saying that he would make a far better Headmaster than Albus Dumbledore.
However, after his father's imprisonment in Azkaban following the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Draco came to resent and mistrust Snape, suspecting that he was trying to usurp his father's place in the Death Eater ranks. He refused Snape's repeated offers of help with the task Lord Voldemort assigned him in his sixth year. Narcissa Malfoy, on the other hand, begged Snape to assist Draco in his task to assassinate Dumbledore, fearing that her son was being set up to fail. She ignored the warnings of her sister, Bellatrix Lestrange, who did not trust Snape, and had him make an Unbreakable Vow to help Draco and take over the task should he fail. This speaks highly as to the trust and respect the Malfoys had for Snape.
It's unknown how the Malfoys reacted upon learning of Snape's death and true loyalties. They were possibly saddened due to their longtime friendship. It's possible that they were also sympathetic due to their own disillusionment from Voldemort.
Bellatrix Lestrange, whom he had little patience for
Unlike her Malfoy relatives, Bellatrix Lestrange invested none of her faith in Snape. It's possible that the two got along better during the First Wizarding War as Sirius once described the two as old acquaintances; however, later in life, she showed nothing but distrust toward him. She saw right through his triple agent charade, even though Lord Voldemort could not. Part of the reason for this may have been Snape's half-blood status and his avoidance of imprisonment in Azkaban, while she was incarcerated there for years. Given Bellatrix's obsessive, slavish love for Voldemort, she may have envied the trust the Dark Lord put in Snape, whom she considered her inferior in both blood and service.
She was suspicious when Snape did not immediately return to Voldemort after his rebirth nor come to the Dark Lord's aide before that, and why he never took an opportunity to kill Harry Potter when, as one of the boy's professors, he had easy access to him. When Snape easily backhanded all of her accusations, bringing up that Lord Voldemort himself interrogated him of those lines, Bellatrix was lost for words; Snape was cunning enough to use the power of mere words to render Bella such, for he knew that to further her doubt of Severus would, by extension, mean that she would also be doubting the Dark Lord.
And she was too fanatical to let such disparity in opinion between herself and her master go too far. With her logical reasons for distrusting Snape were gone, her irrational jealousy was all she had left to give her a reason to hate him. For that reason it perhaps grew stronger. Bellatrix was uneasy speaking openly about things around Snape, and tried to discourage her younger sister from asking him for help with Draco's task. Although Bellatrix did not fear or respect Snape like most others did, she seemed to only avoid his bad side so as to avoid Voldemort's bad side by extension.
Snape, on the other hand, seemed to regard Bellatrix coldly. He had very little patience for her dramatics and tendency towards hysteria. He even took the opportunity to mock her for her struggle against the six teenagers from Dumbledore's Army during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, and that she was losing her status in Voldemort's eyes. Snape and Bellatrix were Voldemort's most powerful and trusted servants (or so Voldemort thought as far as Snape was concerned) and as such they never picked a real fight with one another. They were also the Death Eaters that the Order of the Phoenix and its associates hated the most and the ones the other Death Eaters feared and respected the most. Bellatrix never managed to convince anyone of Snape's true loyalty and died moments before it was revealed to everyone that she had been right all along.
Igor Karkaroff
Snape and Karkaroff had a little bit of history with each other from the First Wizarding War. Karkaroff was captured by Alastor Moody and during his trial, in a desperate attempt to avoid going to prison he gave to the Ministry many names of Death Eaters, including Snape. However, at the time he was not aware that Snape was a double agent. He desperately tried to convince the court that Snape remained guilty despite the judge telling him Snape was cleared.
During the Triwizard Tournament, when Karkaroff's and Snape's Dark Marks were burning stronger, Karkaroff told his worries to Snape, who expressed little concern to him. As the year progressed, Karkaroff continued to pursue Snape over the issue, to which Snape became increasingly annoyed, and even started to evade him. Snape described Karkaroff as cowardly and had no intention of joining him in hiding once Voldemort returned. Karkaroff's death did not seem to surprise Snape.
A masked Death Eater
Severus became a member of the Death Eaters after Hogwarts. During his time at school, he was a member of a "gang of Slytherins that would later become Death Eaters". This gang included Bellatrix Black, Rodolphus Lestrange, Avery, Mulciber, Evan Rosier and Wilkes. Lily Evans could not understand how he could be friends with them, as they had an "evil sense of humour".
It's unknown how close he really was with the members of this gang, however he did seem somewhat defensive when Lily spoke ill of Mulciber and Avery implying a possible level of intimacy with them at least. Rosier and Wilkes were killed by Aurors after the First Wizarding War; Rodolphus, Bellatrix, and Mulciber were captured (but later escaped), while Avery managed to defect. Besides Bellatrix, it's unknown what kind of relationship he had with his old school friends as an adult.
Other Death Eaters Snape knew were Amycus and Alecto Carrow, two siblings. Judging by Amycus's reaction upon seeing Snape at the Astronomy Tower it seems that he (and possibly Alecto) truly believed that Snape was on their side. Amycus and Alecto were Deputy Headmasters at Hogwarts, at the time Snape was Headmaster. They were both sadistic, and they liked to torture the students who opposed them. They also ordered the students to practise the Cruciatus Curse on punished students. Death Eater Corban Yaxley appeared to be friendly with Snape too however he seemed resentful when Voldemort valued Snape's information and accomplishments over his own. Along with Fenrir Greyback, they seemed to fear Snape's abilities, as they instantly stood down when he approached to kill Dumbledore, despite Draco being tasked with the job.
Furthermore, Snape knew the extremely loyal Death Eater Barty Crouch Jnr. during the First Wizarding War. For many years, it was believed that Barty Crouch was dead. However, he escaped from Azkaban and planned to send Harry Potter to Voldemort, who would be reborn. Snape, along with Dumbledore and McGonagall, saved Harry from Crouch while he was trying to kill Harry. Snape was surprised that Crouch was still alive. Later, the Death Eater was given the Dementor's Kiss though no reaction from Snape is noted.
Other known Death Eaters were Antonin Dolohov, Augustus Rookwood, Nott, Crabbe, Goyle, Walden Macnair, Jugson, Thorfinn Rowle, Gibbon, Rosier, Avery, Mulciber, Lestrange, Travers, Selwyn, and Rabastan Lestrange. Rodolphus and Rabastan were the only ones who tried to search for Lord Voldemort after the first defeat, along with Bellatrix and Barty Crouch Jnr During the Second Wizarding War. All those Death Eaters were either killed or imprisoned after Voldemort's final defeat. Although not shown interacting much with Snape, they all presumably held him in the same respect and fear that Yaxley & Greyback did and, considering Snape's rank, had to answer to him. According to Snape some of them believed that he was not truly loyal to their cause, however none of them (save Bellatrix) openly confronted him about it.
It is unknown how the surviving Death Eaters reacted — either as a group or as individuals — to reveal of Snape's demise (if they found out) or the revelations of his true loyalties.
Neville Longbottom, his student
Neville Longbottom was perhaps one of the worst Potions students Snape ever taught. As such, Snape was especially cruel to him and often made a point of ridiculing his failures in class. On one occasion, Snape threatened to test Neville's Shrinking Solution on his pet toad, despite the fact that the potion would be poisonous if not brewed correctly. Even outside of his own classroom, Snape did not hesitate from offering harsh opinions of Neville.
This treatment made Neville extremely nervous to be around Snape, and further contributed to his poor performance in Potions. Neville admitted in 1993 that Snape was his greatest fear, and, predictably, Snape was the form Neville's Boggart took at that time.
Snape soon heard about Neville's boggart and treated him, if possible, even worse than he usually did. However, in 1996, Snape alerted members of the Order of the Phoenix, in order to save Neville, Harry and their friends from Death Eaters, and although Snape helped save Neville's life, he continued to treat him poorly in school. Neville was surprised that Snape killed Dumbledore but did learn the truth later.
Snape chose to do a subtle favour for Neville when he was caught along with Ginny Weasley and Luna Lovegood attempting to steal the Sword of Gryffindor. Snape chose to send Neville, Luna and Ginny to detention with their friend Hagrid rather than subject them to the sadistic forms of discipline practised by the Carrows. When Neville killed Nagini, he inadvertently avenged Snape's murder.
It is unknown why Snape resented Neville so much, though it is possible that from Sybill Trelawney's first prophecy that it was either Neville or Harry who was to threaten Voldemort, that as a result with Voldemort going for the Potters, that Neville represented his guilt from revealing the prophecy to Voldemort and the potential alternative for what could've happened. As a result, from Snape's point of view, Neville embodied all of this and that made him detest and bully him.
Minerva McGonagall, his colleague and former professor
Minerva McGonagall was generally on good professional terms with Snape. However, seeing as Snape was the Head of Slytherin House, while McGonagall was the Head of Gryffindor House, there was some antagonism between them, as Snape usually teased McGonagall when Slytherin had more points than Gryffindor. McGonagall was also wary of the fact that Snape was once a Death Eater. However, she trusted him because she knew that Dumbledore trusted him, too. She also did not hesitate to call him out when she believed he was being too cruel. McGonagall, like Snape, was very strict, but much more fair, as noted by Harry Potter. McGonagall was Snape's Transfiguration professor when he was a student and likely admired his brilliance.
Her trust of Snape evaporated after Dumbledore's murder. Furthermore, when Snape became Headmaster of Hogwarts, McGonagall tried to oppose him and the Carrows, without knowing that Snape was trying to protect the students from the Carrows, too. When the war was coming to a head, she personally attacked Snape and violently called him a coward, a trait she, as Head Of Gryffindor, loathed. It is unknown how she reacted when she learned about his true loyalties, but it is likely that she forgave him. She permitted his portrait to be hung in the Headmaster's office, at Harry's request.
Filius Flitwick, his colleague and former professor
Snape was respected professionally among his colleagues at Hogwarts. Though many of them exhibited some wariness towards him due to his status as a former Death Eater, they opted to trust him because Dumbledore did. When Snape killed Dumbledore, however, the entire staff was shocked. In 1998, Flitwick and Sprout, like many other teachers, tried to oppose Snape and the Carrows, and they were among the ones who chased Snape out of Hogwarts before the battle. Flitwick and Sprout were Snape's Charms and Herbology teachers respectively in the latter's youth.
Rubeus Hagrid was no friend of Snape's but trusted him, mainly because Dumbledore trusted him and would always defend him whenever Harry or Ron would express their distrust for him. Both Hagrid and Snape became members of the first and second Order of the Phoenix and they both fought against Voldemort. When Snape killed Dumbledore, Hagrid initially disbelieved the fact and told Harry he must be mistaken but was later furious to learn that Snape had indeed killed the late Headmaster.
Hagrid openly opposed Snape when he became the Headmaster of Hogwarts by holding a Support Harry Potter party (unaware Snape was secretly still on their side), an act which almost resulted in his arrest and forced him to go into hiding until the final battle. Before Hagrid fled, Snape put students in detention with Hagrid, ensuring that they were protected from the harsher and torturous punishments from the Carrows. However, Hagrid eventually learned of Snape's true loyalties during the final confrontation of the Battle of Hogwarts.
Horace Slughorn, Severus's Head of House and Potions Professor
Snape disliked most of the Defence Against the Dark Arts instructors, such as Quirinus Quirrell, Gilderoy Lockhart, Remus Lupin, and Dolores Umbridge. Though this was at least partially out of his own desire to teach the subject, he had legitimate reasons to dislike them, as Quirrell was an agent of Lord Voldemort, Lockhart was a narcissistic fraud, Lupin had acted as a bystander to, if not directly participating in, much of the bullying Snape faced in his school days, and Umbridge was a corrupt woman who wanted the entire school under her thumb.
The only Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Snape refrained from displaying disrespect to was Bartemius Crouch Jnr impersonating Alastor Moody, the toughest Dark wizard hunter the Ministry ever had. Harry surmised this was out of fear, but it was more likely due to allegiance. It should be noted that Moody had been the one to kill Evan Rosier, an old friend of Snape's, and possibly others.
Horace Slughorn had been Snape's Potions master and head of house. Snape was made a member of the Slug Club as he was a brilliant student and even then his potion abilities were almost as good if not equal to Slughorn's. Snape might have been the student to whom Slughorn once awarded a vial of Liquid Luck. It is highly unlikely that Slughorn was aware of Snape's self-altered textbook and was flabbergasted when Snape murdered Dumbledore. Snape seemed on good terms with Argus Filch, the caretaker, who respected Snape, and like him, disliked most students at Hogwarts. Snape often had Filch report directly to him if he found anything suspicious during his nighttime patrols. It's possible that after Voldemort took over Filch was only able to remain at Hogwarts because of his loyalty towards Snape. It is unknown how Filch reacted when he learned that Snape killed Dumbledore, or when Snape himself died.
Some of Snape's students
Snape was not popular among the majority of the students at Hogwarts. He was quite strict and had high standards. He refused to allow any students into his N.E.W.T.-level Potions classes unless they achieved an "O" grade on their O.W.L. exam for the subject (many other Hogwarts teachers would still accept the next-best grade, "E", for their advanced classes). Despite N.E.W.T.s not beginning until the sixth-year, it was Snape's policy to grade his fifth-year students by the N.E.W.T. scale. At the beginning of the 1995-1996 school year, he warned his fifth-year students that he expected everyone to make some sort of passing grade on their O.W.L. exams, even if they were not intending to try for his N.E.W.T. class. Anyone who made a poor grade would deal with his "displeasure".
In addition to being strict, he was also not always fair. His having been bullied so much as a child may have fuelled his oppressiveness as a teacher. During Harry Potter's years at the school, Snape particularly enjoyed taking points from Harry's House, Gryffindor. He generally favoured the students in his own House, Slytherin, including Draco Malfoy. However, he was still irritated if they did not live up to his expectations and would punish them too. On at least one occasion, he gave Crabbe and Goyle detention because they had failed their O.W.L. exam for Defence Against the Dark Arts.
He also had no qualms punishing Merula Snyde for attempting to frame Jacob's sibling despite her being a Slytherin and seems to dislike her for being perhaps the most atrocious liar and blamer among Slytherins. The students of his house generally regarded him with respect and pride, even cheering loudly when he effortlessly defeated Lockhart with one spell. However, becoming the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher made Snape fairer (if only slightly) as he lowered his standards to allow more students to enter advanced studies, and he taught the lectures with more passion that intrigued his students' interests.
Although he disliked most students, a feeling that is quite mutual, he was not truly evil and did feel quite a lot of concern for their safety and well-being. After Rowan Khanna's tragic murder at the hands of Patricia Rakepick rendered the student body devastated and mournful during the 1989–1990 school year, Snape proceeded to teach his sixth years how to concoct the Dreamless Sleep Potion in Potions class, due in part to many of his students suffering from sleep-deprived nights following Khanna's death. He was also noted to be particularly patient by Jacob's sibling during that specific Potions class, sympathising with the grief his class felt and patiently urging them to focus on his lesson.
In 1993, when Professor McGonagall informed the staff that a student had been captured by the monster from the Chamber of Secrets, Snape displayed a hint of genuine concern by gripping the back of a chair very hard. He also did everything he could to protect the students from Voldemort's control of Hogwarts, while Alecto and Amycus Carrow were appointed at the school, further showing he did care for his students even if he rarely showed it.
The original Order of the Phoenix
Snape's relationships with some members of the Order of the Phoenix have already been established: Lily Evans, the Marauders, Albus Dumbledore, Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, and Minerva McGonagall.
Snape was not particularly gracious towards Nymphadora Tonks, probably because she was so close to Remus Lupin. When they met at school in 1996, he maliciously said "I was interested to see your new Patronus. I think you were better off with the old one... the new one looks weak." Snape did, however, respect Tonks' abilities as he was her Potions master whilst she was a Hogwarts student and she earned an O in her O.W.L. This is evident as he never let one with a lesser grade take the N.E.W.T which was a requirement to be an auror. Tonks was shocked when Snape killed Dumbledore and never learned that Snape was on their side, as she was killed by Bellatrix Lestrange during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Snape had a mixed relationship with the Weasley family. While he disliked their children, he seemed to be on civil terms with Arthur and Molly. However, when he murdered Dumbledore, the Weasley family obviously turned against him. Snape also accidentally cursed off George's ear, during the Battle of the Seven Potters, while he was trying to hit another Death Eater. The Weasley family learned that Snape was on their side in 1998, except Fred, who was killed in the Battle of Hogwarts.
He also did not much care for a fellow member of the Order Mundungus Fletcher, who was also a thief. In 1996 he was arrested for impersonating an Inferius. When Seamus Finnigan asked Snape about it, he answered that the "Inferius" was, in fact, a smelly sneak thief named Mundungus Fletcher. It is most likely that Mundungus learned that Snape was on their side after the Second Wizarding War.
It is likely that the members of the Order who survived the Battle of Hogwarts were told by Harry of Snape's true loyalties.
Jacob's sibling
Much like for Harry Potter, Snape seemed to harbour a particular dislike for Jacob's sibling. He first met the student when they were having a quarrel with the imperious Slytherin Merula Snyde outside his dungeon, and callously dismissed their reason for arguing with her in defence of their best friend Rowan Khanna. Due to the sordid reputation of their brother casting much apprehension over both the staff and student body, Snape was initially mistrustful of them and made no attempt to hide his contempt for Jacob's sibling during their first-ever Potions class. When their potion was egregiously sabotaged by Merula, Snape's disdain for them was exacerbated, with him unfairly deducting ten House points from them as punishment for their supposed incompetence.
He continued to mistreat them even further after their unsanctioned duel with Merula, being largely dismissive of who instigated the fight but unreasonably assuming that Jacob's sibling was the one who started it. His dislike for them was great enough that he unsuccessful appealed to Dumbledore for their immediate expulsion from Hogwarts, and, disregarding the fact that his aforementioned Slytherin student also had her own part to play in the duel, cruelly subtracted an additional twenty House points from Jacob's sibling soon after.
He continued to dislike them in whatever situation they were. This hatred didn't prevent him from saving their life against Rakepick, though.
The student in question, however, was always courteous and civil towards Snape, going so far as to openly acknowledge the latter as being an exceptional teacher on the infrequent occasions that he wasn't berating them, with Snape gradually finding himself to begrudgingly acknowledge said student's flair for potion-making. Indeed, Jacob's sibling only ever betrayed signs of impatience or anger whenever Snape became particularly derisive and scornful, with them thus forming a semi-antagonistic relationship with the Potions Master over the years.
Patricia Rakepick, an enemy and former colleage
Five years his senior at Hogwarts, Severus Snape met Patricia Rakepick for the first time while they were both still students, and took an immediate dislike to her: Bold as brass and with little regards for school rules, and a member of Gryffindor House to boot, Patricia Rakepick was someone whom Severus would one day compare to his arch-rival during his schooldays, James Potter, another trouble-making Gryffindor. Whilst it is uncertain what he thought of Rakepick's initial claims about the existence of the fabled Cursed Vaults as a student, he did acknowledge that she was remarkably ambitious for a Gryffindor, and by no means stupid.
By the time he had replaced Horace Slughorn as the school's Potions Master, Rakepick was already a notable curse-breaker and building her career on eliminating her competition. Wary of her true intentions, when Albus Dumbledore invited her back to help break the curses plaguing the school and its denizens, their old rivalry immediately reignited, and Snape immediately went about trying to uncover whatever ulterior motives she might have, suspecting that she wanted to use the vaults to take control of Hogwarts.
From that moment on, it is known that Snape and Rakepick were engaging in a subtle battle of wits, and even used students to spy on one another. Recognising that Rakepick regarded one of the pupils as a potential rival in her quest to find the vaults, and aware of how Rakepick dealt with rivals, Snape cleverly had said student serving as his spy to shift her attention over on him to protect the student as a supposed mastermind of the youngster's actions, while also using the ploy as a tool to try and learn what Rakepick was up to and expose her to Dumbledore, the one person whom they knew for a certainty would be able to put a stop to her plot, whatever it might be.
When Snape learned of how Rakepick had tortured Merula Snyde with the Cruciatus Curse in the Buried Vault, he swore vegenace against her for her appalling crime, promising he would find her.
Severus means "stern" in Latin, and is the root of the English word "severe". It was a Roman cognomen, common to members of the Severan dynasty of Emperors, including one notorious for his harsh persecution of the early Christians.
J. K. Rowling has said that she took the surname Snape from an English village in Suffolk. There is also a village called "Snape" in Yorkshire, which was rebuilt by the aforementioned emperor, Septimus Severus. Snape is also an English verb meaning "to be hard upon, rebuke, snub", derived from the Old Norse "sneypa", "to outrage, dishonour, disgrace".
Interestingly J.K. Rowling used to live in Clapham Junction at the time of her starting to write the first book. Opposite Clapham Junction station is a road named Severus Road, though it is unknown if this is simply a coincidence.
Snape as illustrated by J. K. Rowling
Severus Snape as seen in Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells
Severus Snape as illustrated by Owen Davey on  Pottermore
Snape as a LEGO minifigure (2007 edition)
Snape as a LEGO minifigure (2010 edition)
Snape as a LEGO minifigure (2018 edition)
Snape as a LEGO minifigure (2020 edition)
Snape as a POP! Vinyl
Snape (in his Yule Ball robes) as a POP! Vinyl
Severus' death in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Snape as shown in The Simpsons episode "Love is a Many-Splintered Thing"
Title image for Harry Potter and Me
Harry Potter and Me is a Christmas television special by the BBC, broadcast on 28 December, 2001. It is an interview with J. K. Rowling, and is notable for showing pages of Rowling's notes on the Harry Potter series.
Screenshot of J. K. Rowling's notebook concerning the students in Harry Potter's year
Notes shown in the documentary details students in Harry Potter's year, including Wayne Hopkins, Kevin Entwhistle and Tracey Davis. The class list gives us an idea of some of the identities of the remaining students not mentioned in the series. If the year group is to comprise of 40 students, 10 belonging to each house, and even distribution of genders, we can create a better picture of the still remaining gaps. In the series we are introduced to 8 Gryffindor students (Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Dean Thomas, Seamus Finnigan, Hermione Granger, Lavender Brown and Parvati Patil), 4 Hufflepuff students (Ernie Macmillan, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Hannah Abbott, and Susan Bones), 6 Ravenclaw students (Terry Boot, Mandy Brocklehurst, Michael Corner, Anthony Goldstein, Padma Patil, and Lisa Turpin) and 8 Slytherin students (Draco Malfoy, Vincent Crabbe, Gregory Goyle, Blaise Zabini, Theodore Nott, Pansy Parkinson, Millicent Bulstrode and Daphne Greengrass) of Harry's year. The addition of the class list gives us 4 further Hufflepuffs (Wayne Hopkins, Megan Jones, Roger Malone and Kevin Entwhistle), 4 Ravenclaws (Isobel MacDougal, Stephen Cornfoot, Oliver Rivers, and Sue Li), and 1 Slytherin (Tracey Davis). The rest of the students can be placed as 2 female Gryffindors, 2 female Hufflepuffs, and 1 female Slytherin. These students are made up of Lily Moon, Sophie Roper, Sally-Anne Perks, Runcorn, and Sally Smith.
Included in the play was a three-minute Harry Potter short film starring Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson, Rupert Grint and Matthew Lewis in their familiar Harry Potter roles and filmed during production of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
Throughout Children's Party at the Palace, an ongoing storyline involved various characters trying to find the Queen's missing handbag.
The letter from the Prime Minister
The Harry Potter segment begins with an owl delivering a letter to the Gryffindor Common Room at Hogwarts. Harry Potter, Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley enter in the midst of Hermione complaining about an (unheard) joke not making sense. Spying the owl and its letter, they open the correspondence.
Harry Ron and Hermione read the letter
Although Ron thinks the letter comes from the Minister for Magic, Hermione realises it actually comes from the Muggle Prime Minister. Addressed to "whomever it may concern - as long as they can use magic", the letter reports on the Queen's handbag being stolen. Ron jokes that "Voldemort's getting really inventive."
The letter stresses the urgency of retrieving the handbag as it contains Her Majesty's reading glasses which she needs in order to read her speech at her 80th birthday celebration. Harry remarks that Peeves was using the birthday as an excuse to drop coloured eggs on people at breakfast.
the bags
Harry suggests Veritaserum could be used to make the thieves confess, but Hermione points out they do not know who the thief is yet. Harry unsuccessfully tries the Summoning Charm to conjure up the lost handbag. Unable to do it by himself, Ron joins him and together they perform the charm again -- only to have a pile of different lost handbags appear on the table. Thinking one of them must be the Queen's, the trio begins searching through the bags.
Ron's finger was caught by a mousetrap
Neville Longbottom arrives and spots his grandmother's handbag among the litter (Ron asks him if his gran happens to be the Queen). Hermione says none of the bags is the Queen's because they are too far away from Buckingham Palace for the Accio charm to work. Ron sticks his hand in Neville's Gran's bag and gets a mousetrap on his fingers as a result.
Harry sends Hedwig with the letter to the Queen's palace
Hermione gets an idea and grabs a quill and parchment. She writes a letter which provides the Palace with a temporary transference of magical power (presumably so they can use the Accio charm themselves).
They send the owl back to Buckingham Palace with Hermione's letter, and The Queen subsequently gets her handbag back.
Harry Potter- The Queens Lost Handbag!
For all individuals outside the Harry Potter universe whom are considered actors.
All items (11)
"Point me!"
Fulham, London, England, UK
He made his acting debut at 10 years of age in BBC One's 1999 television film David Copperfield, followed by his cinematic debut in 2001's The Tailor of Panama. At age 11, he was cast as Harry Potter in the first Harry Potter film, and starred in the series for 10 years until the release of the eighth and final film in 2011.
Radcliffe began to branch out to stage acting in 2007, starring in the London and New York productions of Equus, and in the 2011 Broadway revival of the musical How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying. He starred in the 2012 horror film The Woman in Black, and played beat poet Allen Ginsberg in the 2013 independent film Kill Your Darlings.
Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter
Radcliffe was born on 23 July 1989 in West London, England, the only child of Alan George Radcliffe, a literary agent, and Marcia Jeannine Gresham (née Marcia Gresham Jacobson), a casting agent who was involved in several films for the BBC, including The Inspector Lynley Mysteries and Walk Away And I Stumble.Alan Radcliffe and Marcia Gresham, discouraged their only child from show business when, at age five, he said that he wanted to perform.
However, his parents decided to let him audition for the role of young David Copperfield to boost his confidence after he told them that he 'wasn't good at anything', as in December 1999, he made his first on-screen appearance as the young David Copperfield in David Copperfield, the BBC's televised version of the Charles Dickens' novel David Copperfield. This was followed in 2001 by his first film appearance, as Mark Pendel in The Tailor of Panama. In 2001 he starred in his most remembered role; that of Harry Potter in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. In 2002 he had a role in the play The Play What I Wrote directed by Kenneth Branagh; a production well known for their "surprise guest".
In 2004 and 2005 he returned to the Potter franchise in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Radcliffe starred in the independent Australian film December Boys directed by Rod Hardy within the next year and in 2007 he once again put on the famous lightning-bolt shaped scar and round glasses in the fifth Harry Potter film Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. In 2009, he was in its sequel, Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince. He appeared in the final two Harry Potter movies, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, in 2010 and 2011 respectively. In 2012 he portrayed Arthur Kipps in the horror film The Woman in Black alongside his Harry Potter co-star Ciarán Hinds. His on-screen son is played by his real-life godson.
Dan also stars in the romantic comedy What If which has gained attention, ultimately getting on the iTunes top 25 movies. In 2013, he portrayed American poet Allen Ginsberg in the thriller drama Kill Your Darlings, directed by John Krokidas. He also starred in The F Word and Alexandre Aja's Horns. Radcliffe's starred as a revised character of Igor in Victor Frankenstein and will be starring as American reporter Jake Adelstein in Tokyo Vice.
In 2000, producer David Heyman asked Radcliffe to audition for the role of Harry Potter for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, the best-selling book by British author J. K. Rowling. Rowling had been searching for an unknown British actor to personify the character; however, Radcliffe's parents did not want him to audition for the role, as the contract required shooting all seven films in Los Angeles, California, and so they did not tell him. The movie's director Chris Columbus recalled thinking, "This is what I want. This is Harry Potter", after he saw a video of the young actor in David Copperfield. Eight months later, and after several auditions, Radcliffe was selected to play the part. Rowling also endorsed the selection saying, "I don't think Chris Columbus could have found a better Harry." Radcliffe's parents originally turned down the offer, as they had been told that it would involve six films shot in Los Angeles. Warner Bros. instead offered Radcliffe a two-movie contract with shooting in the UK though, when signing up, Radcliffe was unsure if he would do any more pictures.
In his GCSE examinations he got seven B's, a couple of A's and an A*and in his AS-level exams 
and he got A grades in 2006 but decided to take a break from education and did not go to college or university. Part of his reasoning was that he already knew he wanted to act and write, and that it would be difficult to have a normal college experience. "The paparazzi, they'd love it," he told Details magazine in 2007." If there were any parties going on, they'd be tipped off as to where they were.
Daniel prefers being called Dan. He plays the bass guitar and once had a bass lesson from Prisoner of Azkaban co-star Gary Oldman. A passionate guitar rock music fan, some of his favourite bands include The Sex Pistols, The Clash, The Libertines, The Strokes, and The Red Hot Chili Peppers. His personal favourite band is The Hold Steady, Out of Brooklyn.
Radcliffe has also been a supporter of various charities. Fans have, on his request, repeatedly donated to various organisations, including the Demelza House charity.
In 2006, Radcliffe spoofed his Harry Potter image in an episode of the comedy series Extras starring Ricky Gervais. In the episode, Radcliffe plays himself, but a warped version who womanises and keeps coming on to Dame Diana Rigg, also appearing as herself. In the film, Radcliffe appears in several scenes spoofing Harry Potter, only with Radcliffe playing a Boy Scout (with Potter glasses) who comes upon an elf in the forest (played by his Potter co-star Warwick Davis). The DVD release of the episode included outtakes in which Radcliffe couldn't keep a straight face whenever Davis uttered a line of dialogue about his flute.
In 2007, Radcliffe starred, along with his Harry Potter co-star Richard Griffiths, in the London West End stage production, Equus. Leading up to his performance, the 17 year old star received much criticism about the adult content in the production. Radcliffe appears nude in the production and publicity materials portrayed a much grown-up and nude Radcliffe. Radcliffe also smokes in the play, upsetting some Harry Potter fans and anti-smoking advocates.[citation needed] He reprised his role in the US production in September 2008. It ended on February 8, 2009.
In August 2008 Dan revealed that he has dyspraxia, which is a developmental issue that make it hard for him to do certain things.
In an interview in Entertainment Weekly, he has said that he cannot wait to film the seventh Harry Potter movie. After rereading the chapter in which Harry encounters Dumbledore in King's Cross, he was surprised to find out Harry is completely naked during the scene, to which he replied, "It's old hat for me now," referring to his role in Equus, in which he is naked on stage for a period of time. However that scene was changed for Part 2, so that Harry and Dumbledore have the conversation from the book, but Harry isn't naked.
Dan has also revealed that he is Jewish, on his mother's side, and "is very proud to be Jewish". However, he also claims that he is an atheist.
In 2009, Radcliffe was nominated and voted in eighteenth place in Portrait Magazine, Top 30 Under 30 2009 List. Some of Dan's fellow Harry Potter costars were also nominated. Bonnie Wright who plays Ginny Weasley was second place, Evanna Lynch who plays Luna Lovegood was third place, Rupert Grint who plays Ron Weasley was fifth place, Emma Watson who plays Hermione Granger was eighth place, and Tom Felton who plays Draco Malfoy was fourteenth place.
When Equus first hit the stage many parents were concerned due to Radcliffe smoking in the production, and the effect this behaviour may have on their children. Radcliffe assured his fans that the cigarettes he smokes in the play are fake, and that he does not smoke in real life. However, Radcliffe was photographed with a cigarette in hand, and has since confessed that he does indeed smoke. Speculation continues as to what the cigarette actually contained; as the picture was snapped at a celebrity party - in London - it was unlikely to consist solely of tobacco.[citation needed]
In March 2011 Radcliffe enraged executives of Warner Bros. when he decided to appear in a showing of his play How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying on the same night as the London premiere of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2. Warner Bros. was forced to pay the play's production company $300,000 to cancel the performance and ensure Radcliffe's attendance at the premiere.
His first post-Harry Potter project was the 2012 horror film The Woman in Black, adapted from the 1983 novel by Susan Hill. The film was released on 3 February 2012 in the United States and Canada, and was released on 10 February in the UK. Radcliffe portrays a man sent to deal with the legal matters of a mysterious woman who has just died, and soon after he begins to experience strange events and hauntings from the ghost of a woman dressed in black. He has said he was "incredibly excited" to be part of the film and described the script as "beautifully written".
In 2013, he portrayed American poet Allen Ginsberg in the thriller drama Kill Your Darlings, directed by John Krokidas. He also starred in The F Word and Alexandre Aja's Horns. Radcliffe played the character Igor in Victor Frankenstein and American reporter Jake Adelstein in Tokyo Vice. Radcliffe also performed at the Noël Coward Theatre in the stage play revival of Martin McDonagh's dark comedy The Cripple of Inishmaan as the lead, Billy Claven, for which he won the WhatsOnStage Award for Best Actor in a Play.
He starred as the main antagonist, Walter Tressler Mabry in Now You See Me: The Second Act. In November 2014, the film was officially titled Now You See Me: 2 and was released on June 10, 2016.
In November 2015 he joined the ensemble cast of Shane Carruth's third film, The Modern Ocean alongside Anne Hathaway, Keanu Reeves, Tom Holland, Chloe Grace Moretz, Asa Butterfield, Jeff Goldblum and Abraham Attah. Around the same year he also starred as Rockstar Games co-founder Sam Houser in the BBC docudrama The Gamechangers, which was a dramatised account of the controversies faced by Rockstar Games and their Grand Theft Auto video game franchise.
"You're a WICKED producer!" writes Grint. "To David, thank you is not a strong enough word for my gratitude," is Watson's neatly written message. And from Daniel Radcliffe? "Thank goodness I went to the theatre. Love, Dan."
Born in Harlow, Essex, England, and grew up in Watton-at-Stone, Hertfordshire, Rupert Grint is the eldest of five siblings. He has one brother and three sisters: James (b. 1990), Georgina (b. 1993), Samantha (b. 1996), and Charlotte (b. 1998).
Before being cast in Harry Potter he had only appeared in school plays and with his local theatre group Top Hat Stage School in such productions as Peter Pan and Rumplestiltskin.
In 2005, Rupert left Richard Hale School, taking his GCSE examinations in Art and German.
Rupert Grint on the set of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
A self-proclaimed fan of the Harry Potter book series, young Rupert was adamant about getting a role in the first film. He entered a video he made of himself rapping about the role of Harry Potter, and at the age of 11, won the role of Harry's best friend Ron Weasley.
After completing the first Harry Potter film, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, he appeared as Alan A. Allen in the British comedy film Thunderpants (2002). In 2002 and 2004, he again starred as Ron Weasley in the Harry Potter sequels, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.
Also known for his radio and television voice overs, he appeared as Nigel Molesworth of the Baggy Trousers series for the BBC. In 2005, he again played Ron Weasley in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
Marking his first foray from the comic-goofball-sidekick roles, Rupert starred in the coming of age story Driving Lessons with Laura Linney and Julie Walters (Molly Weasley) which was released in 2006.
In 2009, Rupert was nominated and placed in Portrait Magazine, Top 30 Under 30 2009 List. alongside fellow Harry Potter co-stars Bonnie Wright, Evanna Lynch, Emma Watson, Tom Felton and Daniel Radcliffe. Rupert was voted fifth place.
He also appears with fellow Harry Potter co-star Bill Nighy in the 2010 film Wild Target. He also had a main role in the film Cherrybomb.
Having starred in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 and Part 2, Rupert's first film role following the end of Harry Potter was in the 2012 film Into the White. In 2015, he starred in Moonwalkers.
Rupert lended his voice to Postman Pat: The Movie – You Know You're the One, along with his Harry Potter co-stars Jim Broadbent and David Tennant.
Emma knew she wanted to act from the age of six. Prior to being cast in the Harry Potter film series, Watson had only acted in school plays. At school, she took the lead role in several plays, including Arthur: The Young Years and The Happy Prince. Along with plays, Emma participated in many other school productions, including the Daisy Pratt Poetry Competition, in which she won first place for her year at age seven.
Emma Watson as Hermione Granger in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
At the age of eleven, Watson made her professional acting debut in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone playing the vulnerable know-it-all Hermione Granger. In 2002, she starred in the Potter sequel, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. In 2004 and 2005, she again played the brainy Hermione Granger in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. In 2007, she returned to the Potter franchise a fifth time in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, reprising her role as Hermione Granger.
Following the release of Order of the Phoenix, Watson made her first major forays beyond the Potter franchise, playing Pauline Fossil in the television film Ballet Shoes, and voicing Princess Pea in the animated film The Tale of Despereaux. She was originally not going to return to the role of Hermione for Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince to finish her schooling, but soon after fulfilled her role. The film was released in 2009 after originally being scheduled for a Christmas 2008 release. She then went on to perform the character for the final two Harry Potter films, filmed in 2008-2009 and released in 2010 and 2011.
In 2007, Emma was ranked 22nd in Portrait Magazine's 'Top 30 Under 30 2007'. She was the only one from her cast mates.
In 2008, Emma was nominated and awarded fourth place in Portrait Magazine's Top 30 Under 30 2008 list making this her 2nd time. Her Harry Potter co-star Bonnie Wright, who plays Ginny Weasley in the films, was also nominated and awarded fifth place. She and Wright were the only ones of the cast of Harry Potter to be nominated in the Top 30 Under 30 2008 list by Portrait Magazine.
Watson's post-Potter acting career has been the subject of conflicting media reports, with some saying she plans to quit acting to concentrate on university, and others stating she plans to continue acting. In July 2009 it was announced that she will be attending Brown University, in Providence, Rhode Island Her subsequent enrollment in classes in September 2009 was met with considerable paparazzi interest.
Watson signing autographs for fans outside Grauman's Chinese Theatre in 2007
In June 2009 Emma became the new face of Burberry. As of Autumn 2010, Emma is no longer the face of Burberry, but is still with the company.
On September 17, 2009, Emma announced on her official website and as reported in the Guardian that she will be collaborating on a fashion line with People Tree, the sustainable and fair trade fashion brand. Emma served as a creative advisor on the spring/summer line which was launched in February 2010. Emma did three lines for People Tree.
In December 2009, Watson was nominated and voted in eighth place in Portrait Magazine, Top 30 Under 30 2009 List. Emma's fellow Harry Potter's co-stars was also nominated Bonnie Wright who plays Ginny Weasley was second place, Evanna Lynch who play Luna Lovegood was third place, Rupert Grint who plays Ron Weasley was fifth place, Tom Felton who plays Draco Malfoy was fourteenth place, and Daniel Radcliffe who plays Harry Potter was eighteenth place in Portrait Magazine, Top 30 Under 30 2009 List.
In March 2010, Emma performed in Anton Chekov's Three Sisters. The play was a student-directed play at Brown University, where she was a freshman at the time.
In June 2010, Emma was featured in the music video of the song 'Say You Don't Want It' by One Night Only.
Emma modelling clothing from her second line with People Tree
In July 2010 it was confirmed that Emma has a official twitter account. In August 2010 Emma confirmed that she had got a hair cut, photos were also released.
In February 2011 Emma became the face of Lancôme. She is still the face of Lancôme today.
In March 2011 Emma's five piece organic clothing line with Alberta Ferretti debuted.
On November 4, 2011, Emma appeared as Lucy in My Week with Marilyn; alongside her Harry Potter co-stars Kenneth Branagh (Gilderoy Lockhart), Toby Jones (Dobby), Zoë Wanamaker (Rolanda Hooch), and Geraldine Somerville (Lily Potter I).
In 2012, Emma starred in the film The Perks of Being a Wallflower. The film is based off the novel by Stephen Chbosky. Emma played an American high-schooler named Sam.
In June 2013, The Bling Ring hit theatres. It was based on actual events where a group of fame-obsessed teenagers use the internet to track celebrities' whereabouts so they can rob their homes. Emma played a bratty American teenager named Nicki. The Bling Ring was directed by Sofia Coppola.
Emma also co-stars with Russell Crowe and Jennifer Connelly in Noah, about the Biblical prophet, which was released in 2014.
In January 2015, it was announced that Emma Watson had been cast in the role of Belle in The Walt Disney Company's planned live-action adaptation of 'the tale as old as time,' Beauty and the Beast. The film was released on 17 March 2017. In the film, Emma plays alongside Emma Thompson (Sybill Trelawney), who both voices and plays the role of Mrs Potts.
Emma Charlotte Duerre Watson was born on April 15th, 1990 at 6:00 P.M. in Le Marais Paris, France. Her parents are Jacqueline Luesby and Chris Watson, and both are lawyers. They lived in Maisons-Laffitte, Paris until they divorced.
When she was five years old, her parents divorced and she moved to Oxfordshire, England with her mother and younger brother. Both her parents have remarried, and she has three half-siblings and two step-brothers.
Emma attended the Dragon School, an independent preparatory school until June 2003. She then transferred to Headington School, an independent girls' school.
An avid sports player, Watson enjoys playing hockey, tennis, and rounders. She is also said to be a gifted singer.
Watson with co-stars Daniel Radcliffe and Rupert Grint in promotional shot for Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Emma Watson in 2011
Emma Watson receiving award at the National Movie Awards
Epsom, Surrey, England, Great Britain
Born in Epsom, Surrey, he grew up in Epsom with his mother, Sharon, his father, Peter, and his three older siblings, Jonathan, Ashley and Chris. Felton first came to attention in 1997 when he was featured in a number of top television commercials, in some of which he took the starring role. He shot to fame, and in 1996 he played the part of Peagreen Clock in Peter Hewitt's The Borrowers, and later as Louis in the film Anna and the King which also starred Jodie Foster. Rumours spread of Tom taking part in the series Home Farm Twins, but the show never came out of cancellation. Before the Harry Potter years, in 1995, he was also known to have performed as the voice of James on the television series "Bugs". More recently though, he has become known for his portrayal of Draco Malfoy in the Harry Potter films. "His performances in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 won him two consecutive MTV Movie Awards for Best Villain in 2010 and 2011."
Felton has also been in several later TV series, namely Second Sight I and II playing witness Thomas Ingham opposite Clive Owen. In addition, Felton is a talented singer and has been a member of four choirs during his childhood. Recently, he published his own songs, in coordination with 'Feltbeats' which can be seen on Youtube. He has uploaded many tracks, each featuring him and his guitar. He was even offered a place in the Guildford Cathedral Choir. He also enjoys football, ice-skating, rollerblading, basketball, cricket, swimming and tennis. His favourite pastime is carp fishing. At age 11, he worked in a fishery, partially due to his passion.
His favourite villain in films is Alan Rickman in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves portraying the Sheriff of Nottingham. His favourite Harry Potter characters are Gilderoy Lockhart and Lucius Malfoy.
Tom was nominated and voted in fourteenth place in Portrait Magazine, Top 30 Under 30 2009 List. Felton's fellow Harry Potter co-stars were also nominated; Bonnie Wright who plays Ginny Weasley was in second place, Evanna Lynch who plays Luna Lovegood was in third place, Rupert Grint who plays Ron Weasley was in fifth place, Emma Watson who plays Hermione Granger was in eighth place and Daniel Radcliffe who plays Harry Potter was in eighteenth place in Portrait Magazine, Top 30 Under 30 2009 List.
In 2022 he directed the premiere of the film Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore.[citation needed]
On 13 October 2022, his memoir Beyond the Wand - The Magic and Mayhem of Growing Up a Wizard was released.
Tom Felton as Draco Malfoy in a promotional poster for Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Fiennes trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts and then joined the Royal Shakespeare Company in 1988. He is the only actor ever to have won a Tony Award for playing Hamlet on Broadway. In 2001, Fiennes received the William Shakespeare Award from the Shakespeare Theatre in Washington, D.C.
Fiennes made his film debut in 1992 as Heathcliff in Wuthering Heights opposite Juliette Binoche, for which he received substantial acclaim and praise throughout Europe. But it was in the following year that he became known internationally, portraying the amoral Nazi concentration camp commandant Amon Göth in Steven Spielberg's Schindler's List, for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. He did not win the Oscar, but he did win the Best Supporting Actor BAFTA Award for the role.
In 1994, he portrayed American academic Charles Van Doren in Quiz Show, and in 1996, he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor for the World War II epic romance The English Patient.
Fiennes' work has ranged from thrillers (Red Dragon (film), (Harry Potter) to animated Biblical epic (The Prince of Egypt) to campy nostalgia (The Avengers ) to romantic comedy (Maid in Manhattan) and offbeat dramedy (Oscar and Lucinda). In 2002, Fiennes and Miranda Richardson received several awards for their performances in David Cronenberg's award-winning thriller Spider.
Ralph Fiennes in costume as Lord Voldemort
The Constant Gardener (film) was released in 2005, with Fiennes as the title role. The film is set in the slums of Kibera and Loiyangalani, Kenya. The situation affected the crew to the extent that they set up the Constant Gardener Trust in order to provide basic education around these villages. Fiennes is a patron of the charity.
His recent performance in the play Faith Healer gained him a nomination for a 2006 Tony Award.
In 2008, Fiennes co-starred in the film In Bruges as a hitman boss. Brendan Gleeson, who plays Mad-Eye Moody, also was featured in the film along with Clemence Poesy, who acts as Fleur Delacour in the film adaptations of Harry Potter.
Fiennes also has a small role in 2010 film Nanny McPhee and the Big Bang, which starred Emma Thompson as the title character. Maggie Smith also had a supporting role in the film. He recently played Hades, God of the underworld, in the 2010 epic Clash of the Titans.
In 2011 Fiennes made his directorial debut with a modern-day adaptation of William Shakespeare's  Coriolanus, in which he also played the title role.
In 2012, Fiennes made his debut in the James Bond series with the 23rd James Bond film Skyfall as Gareth Mallory, the head of the Intelligence and Security Committee and a former British Military officer, who in the climax of the film becomes the new head of MI6 as M after the previous M (played by Judi Dench) is killed in action during the final battle. He reprised his role as M for the following Bond film Spectre that was released in 2015 and No Time to Die in 2020.
In 2014, Fiennes starred in Wes Anderson's The Grand Budapest Hotel as the protagonist Monsieur Gustave H., the charismatic, philandering concierge of the titular hotel.
In 2017, Fiennes voiced Alfred Pennyworth in the animated film The LEGO Batman Movie, co-starring Zoë Kravitz as Catwoman, and featuring a cameo by Fiennes's character, Lord Voldemort, voiced by Eddie Izzard.
In 2018, Fiennes portrayed Professor Moriarty in the comedy film Holmes & Watson, the cast of which included Kelly Macdonald and Pam Ferris as Queen Victoria.
Born in 1962 in Suffolk, England to photographer Mark Fiennes and novelist Jennifer Lash, Fiennes is a third cousin of the adventurer Sir Ranulph Fiennes.
The eldest of six children, he was raised a Roman Catholic. The actor Joseph Fiennes (Shakespeare in Love, Luther (film)) is his brother. His sister Martha Fiennes works as a director (in her film Onegin, he acted the title role). His brother Magnus Fiennes is a composer. His other sister, Sophie Fiennes is also a filmmaker. His other brother, Jacob Fiennes, is a conservationist. Fiennes is a UNICEF ambassador.
The Fiennes family moved to Ireland in 1973, living in West Cork and County Kilkenny for some years, where Fiennes attended St Kieran's College for one year and Newtown, a Quaker school in Waterford city. They then moved to Salisbury in England where Fiennes finished his schooling at Bishop Wordsworth's School before attending Chelsea College of Art. [citation needed]
He married actress Alex Kingston (Elizabeth Corday from ER) in 1993, but they divorced in 1997. In 1995, Fiennes started dating Francesca Annis, his much-older (18 years) co-star in Hamlet. In February 2006, the couple separated. This came after tabloid reports that said Fiennes had an affair with Romanian singer Cornelia Crisan.
In late 2006, sources reported that Fiennes is dating American actress Ellen Barkin, who is eight years his senior.
On February 11, 2007, Lisa Robertson, a Qantas flight attendant was suspended and subsequently fired from both Qantas and a Sydney brothel after having sex with Fiennes in a business class toilet during a flight from Darwin to Mumbai on January 24, 2007 while on duty. 
Robertson admitted to the encounter in an interview with the Daily Mail. She used to be an undercover policewoman. 
Fiennes has not denied the incident took place but his spokesperson said on his behalf he claimed he was not the "aggressor" in the relationship. Because the story was not widely reported, the controversy was only minor.
Ralph having a laugh with Daniel Radcliffe
On Voldemort: He is, of course, a rejected person. It's quite basic: the rejected child who's emotionally been denied affection turns violent. You have to suggest there's more there, a life, a spirit, a mind. It isn't just a creepy voice and makeup. I always think you can find more in something. It's good to just keep asking questions until someone says cut.
Alan Rickman was born on 21 February 1946 in London to a working class family, the son of Margaret Doreen Rose (née Bartlett; b. 6 Dec. 1911 in Pontypridd, Glamorganshire, Wales—d. 16 Feb. 1997 in Leicester, Leicestershire), a housewife, and Bernard William Rickman (b. April 1914 in Fulham, Middlesex—d. 9 Sep. 1954), a factory worker, painter and decorator. At the time of his older brother, David's birth, he had been working as a WWII aircraft fitter. His ancestry was English, Irish and Welsh; his father was Catholic and his mother was a Methodist.
Before his mother married his birth father, she was married to Reginald Cory in 1931 in Hammersmith before unofficially separating from him and marrying Bernard Rickman in 1940.
He had one elder brother, David Bernard John (b. Sep. 1944), a graphic designer who married Christine J. Morrissey in 1970 and live together in Watford, Hertfordshire; a younger brother, Michael Keith (b. 21 Nov. 1947), a professional tennis coach as well as a Councillor on Harborough District Council of the conservative party and lives in Medbourne, Leicestershire; and a younger sister, Sheila J. Innes (b. 15 Feb. 1950). Like Alan, she won a scholarship to Godolphin and Latymer School, she attended Kingsway Princeton College, London, currently works as an office manager for a company named PRN and lived in Bordon, Hampshire with her husband and daughters until 2009.
When Rickman was eight, his father died of lung cancer on 9 September 1954 at age forty, leaving his mother to raise him and his three siblings mostly alone. She married again in 1960 to Kenneth W.J. Edginton, but divorced his stepfather after three years. "There was one love in her life", Rickman later said of this.
Rickman attended Derwentwater Primary School, in Acton, London, a school that followed the Montessori method of education. He attended Latymer Upper School on a scholarship and then went on to study Graphic Design at Chelsea College Of Art and Design.
After three years at Chelsea College, Rickman did graduate studies at the Royal College of Art and started a successful graphics design business with friends called Graphiti, before his love of the theatre led him to seek an audition with the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts (RADA). He received a scholarship allowing him to study at RADA, which enabled him to start his professional acting career which lasted nearly 40 years, a career which has spanned stage, screen and television and lapped over into directing, as well.
Whilst he was best known for his film roles, Rickman's first love was the stage. He worked extensively with various British repertory and experimental theatre groups on productions including The Seagull and Snoo Wilson's The Grass Widow at the Royal Court, and appeared three times at the Edinburgh International Festival. While working with the Royal Shakespeare Company, he made a particular impression as the male lead in their 1985 production of Les Liaisons Dangereuses. When the show went across the Atlantic in 1986, Rickman went with it to Broadway, and there earned a Tony Award nomination for his performance as the elegant and heartless seducer.
Alan Rickman also performed on stage in Noël Coward's romantic comedy Private Lives, which transferred to Broadway after its successful run in London. Rickman was reunited with his Les Liaisons Dangereuses co-star, Lindsay Duncan, and director, Howard Davies for this Tony Award winning production. Previous to this he had appeared in the Royal National Theatre's production of Antony and Cleopatra as Mark Antony, opposite Helen Mirren as Cleopatra, which ran from October 20 to December 3, 1998. Before that, he performed in Yukio Ninagawa's Tango at the End of Winter and the Riverside Studio production of Hamlet in 1991, directed by Robert Sturua. He directed The Winter Guest at London's Almeida Theatre in 1995, which his successfully transferred to film in 1996 which starred his Harry Potter co-star Emma Thompson, and her real life mother Phyllida Law.
To television audiences he became known as Mr Slope in the BBC's 1980s adaptation of Barchester Towers, though he was generally typecast in Hollywood films as an over-the-top villain (German terrorist Hans Gruber in Die Hard and the Sheriff of Nottingham in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves). His role in Die Hard earned him a spot on the American Film Institute's list of the "100 Best Heroes/Villains" as the 46th best villain in film history. His other film performances however showed the true depth of his acting abilities, playing future Irish Taoiseach and president Éamon de Valera in the film Michael Collins, alongside Liam Neeson and Brendan Gleeson, and showing his romantic side in British movies (Colonel Brandon in Sense and Sensibility; Jamie in Truly, Madly, Deeply) Rickman has also demonstrated considerable talent as a comedy actor in films such as Galaxy Quest, Dogma, and Love Actually. He also played a crucial role in the Harry Potter films as the potions professor Severus Snape. Rickman was cast in 2005 as the voice of Marvin the Paranoid Android in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy film. Coincidentally, Rickman and David Learner, who occupied Marvin's costume for the TV adaptation and stage shows, studied together at RADA. He was very busy in 2006 with Snow Cake (with Sigourney Weaver and Carrie-Anne Moss) which had its debut at the Berlin Film Festival, and also Perfume: The Story of a Murderer (with Dustin Hoffman), directed by Tom Tykwer.
Alan Rickman as Severus Snape performing Legilimency in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Rickman continued to show dismay over journalists repeatedly labelling him as a villain actor, citing the fact that he had not portrayed a stock villain character since the Sheriff of Nottingham in 1991, and pointing out that he had continued to portray characters of complex and varying emotions, and didn't think it was fair to assign characters a label of good or evil, hero or villain. The media also dogged him in later years for his thoughts on his role in the Harry Potter series, an irritation to him as he felt the press were too interested in Snape to pay attention to his other work. However, he is very much admired by his Harry Potter fans for the protection he showed for his character in the series, as he continued to cite a fear of ruining the mystery of the character for the fans by talking about him. It is known that prior to the book release of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Rickman had spoken on occasion about Snape quite easily, but with the controversy of the character following the events of the sixth book, Rickman refused to speak on the character anymore.
Rickman also featured in several musical works—most notably in a song composed by the English songwriter Adam Leonard. Moreover, the actor played a "Master of Ceremonies" part in announcing the various instruments in Mike Oldfield's Tubular Bells II on the track "The Bell". He was also one of the many artists who recited Shakespearian sonnets on the 2002-released When Love Speaks CD, and was also featured prominently in a Texas music-video entitled "In Demand", which premiered on Europe MTV in August 2000. In the video Sharleen Spiteri (the lead singer of Texas) danced the tango with Alan: the clip was nominated for Best British Video at the Brit Awards. Sharleen said about the choice of Alan for the clip; "I thought it had to be someone who would be believable, who would rip your coat off and pull you into the tango, so I thought Alan Rickman!" In 2015, Rickman and Spiteri resumed company for production of Texas' song "Start a Family", in which Rickman not only starred in the video but also provided vocals.
Alan Rickman won a Golden Globe and an Emmy for his performance in Rasputin: Dark Servant of Destiny in 1996, and was also nominated for an Emmy Award for his work as Dr Alfred Blalock in 2004's Something the Lord Made. He was also nominated twice for Broadway's Tony Award as Best Actor (Play): in 1987 for Les Liaisons Dangereuses, and in 2002 for the revival of Noël Coward's Private Lives.
Alan Rickman receiving an Emmy award
Rickman directed the play My Name Is Rachel Corrie in April 2005 at the Royal Court Theatre, London, and won the Theatre Goers' Choice Awards for best director. Rickman and journalist Katherine Viner compiled the play from the writings of Rachel Corrie, a 23-year-old American woman who was killed on March 16, 2003 by an Israeli Army bulldozer.
What Alan wrote for Empire Magazine
Rickman was chosen by Empire magazine as one of the 100 Sexiest Stars in film history (No 34) in 1995, ranked No 59 in Empire's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list in October 1997 and was voted No 19 in Empire magazine's Greatest Living Movie Stars over the age of 50. In 2007, Entertainment Weekly named him one of their favourite people in pop culture, saying that in the Harry Potter films, "he may not be on screen long – but he owns every minute," and that he was capable of "turning a simple retort into a mini-symphony of contempt."
Rickman became Vice-Chairman of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in 2003.
In August 2015, Rickman suffered a minor stroke, which led to the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. He concealed the fact that he was terminally ill from all but his closest confidants. On 14 January 2016, Rickman died at the age of 69 in a London hospital, surrounded by friends and relatives. Soon after, his fans created a memorial underneath the "Platform 9¾" sign at London King's Cross railway station.
Tributes from Rickman's co-stars and contemporaries appeared on social media following the announcement; since his cancer was not publicly known, some—like Ralph Fiennes, who "cannot believe he is gone", and Jason Isaacs, who was "sidestepped by the awful news"—expressed their surprise. Harry Potter creator J. K. Rowling called Rickman "a magnificent actor and a wonderful man". Emma Watson wrote, "I feel so lucky to have worked and spent time with such a special man and actor. I'll really miss our conversations". Daniel Radcliffe appreciated his loyalty and support: "I'm pretty sure he came and saw everything I ever did on stage both in London and New York. He didn't have to do that". Evanna Lynch said it was scary to bump into Rickman in character as Snape, but "he was so kind and generous in the moments he wasn't Snaping about". Rupert Grint said, "even though he has gone I will always hear his voice".
Kate Winslet, who gave a tearful tribute at the London Film Critics' Circle Awards, remembered Rickman as warm and generous, noting, "And that voice! Oh, that voice." Dame Helen Mirren said his voice "could suggest honey or a hidden stiletto blade." Emma Thompson remembered "the intransigence which made him the great artist he was—his ineffable and cynical wit, the clarity with which he saw most things, including me... I learned a lot from him." Colin Firth told The Hollywood Reporter that, as an actor, Rickman had been a mentor. John McTiernan, director of Die Hard, said Rickman was the antithesis of the villainous roles for which he was most famous on screen. Sir Ian McKellen wrote, "behind [Rickman's] mournful face, which was just as beautiful when wracked with mirth, there was a super-active spirit, questing and achieving, a super-hero, unassuming but deadly effective."
Rickman had been with his partner, Rima Horton, for over fifty years, since the two had attended Chelsea School of Art together. A former Labour Party candidate for the British parliament, as of 2006 Horton was an economics lecturer at Kingston University. The couple were married in a private ceremony in New York City in 2012. Horton lived with Rickman from 1977 until his death in January 2016.
In the early 90s, through interviews, he named two of his nieces, Claire and Amelia Margaret M. "Amy" (b. c. 24 Jan. 1982 and between Jul.-Sep. 1983, respectively), the daughters of his sister, Sheila and her husband, John M. Innes. Through them, he had at least one great-niece, Hannah and two great-nephews, Michael and Gabriel, Claire's children, who currently reside in Bergen, Hordaland, Norway.
His other blood-related niece included Sarah Melanie Rickman Hodges (b. c. Dec. 1975 in Watford), the daughter of his brother, David and wife, Christine who lived with her aunt, Rima in Upper Addison Gardens from 2004-07 and is now married to Andrew W. Hodges. Through her, he had three more great-nieces.
His other nieces and nephews were related through Rima's older sister and younger brother: Belle; Benta; Jonathan and his brother, name unknown.
His extended family included his fourth cousin, Charlotte Faye (b. c. 1982), the daughter of his cousin, Jeffrey R.J. "Jeff" Rickman who currently resides in South West London and wrote a Twitter message for Rickman on the day of his passing. A close paternal second cousin, Anthony Paul "Tony" Farrington revealed, though through his official Pinterest that Charlotte had never met Rickman.
His mother passed away on 16 February 1997, aged 85 in Leicester, Leicestershire.
Rickman was the Honorary President of the International Performers' Aid Trust, a charity that saves the lives of and supports actors, musicians and other performing artists in some of the most difficult conditions around the world.
He had written journals for a long time. On 24 September 2022, The Guardian published extracts from his journals. In them he revealed he wanted to exit the series. In 2002, he talked to his agent Paul Lyon-Maris about quitting the franchise. Years later in 2006, he reaffirmed his commitment to remain in the franchise after he underwent surgery to remove his prostate.
A book titled Madly, Deeply - The Alan Rickman Diaries (American title: Madly, Deeply - The Diaries of Alan Rickman) featuring his journals was released on 4 October 2022. Emma Thompson provided the foreword, and portions of the audiobook edition are narrated by Alfred Enoch and Bonnie Wright.
Ilford, Essex, England, UK
(husband, 1967-1974, divorced)
(husband, 1975-1998, widowed)
In her career, Smith has won two Academy Awards out of her six nominations: Best Actress in a Leading Role in 1970 for The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, and Best Actress in a Supporting Role in 1978 for California Suite. Additionally, she has won five BAFTAs, and one Tony Award for her stage work. For TV, she has won two Primetime Emmy Awards: Outstanding Lead Actress in Miniseries or a Movie for My House in Umbria, and Outstanding Supporting Actress in Miniseries or a Movie for Downton Abbey.
Maggie Smith's career began at the Oxford Playhouse in the 1950s. She made her film début in 1956 as one of the party guests in a film called Child in the House. After that she has been acting with the most prominent actors and actresses in the world in over sixty films and TV-series, including The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie (1969), California Suite (1978) with Michael Caine and Jane Fonda, A Room with a View (1985), Hook (1991) with Dustin Hoffman, Robin Williams and Julia Roberts, Sister Act and Sister Act II: Back In The Habit (1992-1993) with Whoopi Goldberg, Franco Zeffirelli's Tea with Mussolini (1999) with Judi Dench, Joan Plowright and Cher, and Gosford Park (2001) with Kristin Scott Thomas and Clive Owen, directed by Robert Altman.
Maggie Smith as Minerva McGonagall
In 2001, Maggie Smith made her appearance  as the formidable Professor McGonagall for the first time in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.
2010 found her as a regular on the drama Downton Abbey (2010-2015) where she plays the Dowager Countess of Grantham.
In 2011, she voiced the animated character of "Lady Bluebury" in Gnomeo & Juliet, and reprised the role in its 2018 sequel, Sherlock Gnomes.
Maggie Smith was born in Ilford, Essex on 28 December, 1934 to Margaret and Nathaniel Smith. Her father was pathology laboratory technician at Oxford University, and her mother worked as a secretary. She attended Oxford High School until the age of 16.
Smith has been married twice. First on 29 June, 1967 to actor Robert Stephens and had two sons with him, Chris Larkin and Toby Stephens, both actors. She and Stephens divorced on 6 May, 1974. On 23 August, 1975 she married playwright Beverly Cross and the marriage ended with his death on 20 March, 1998. Smith was, at the time, appearing in the play A Delicate Balance, but she continued until the end of the run.
In 2007, she was diagnosed with breast cancer, but struggled through the filming of the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince while undergoing the chemo treatments. In 2009, during the filming of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, she developed Shingles (a painful skin rash), but still continued the film despite the pain.
Maggie Smith and Imelda Staunton
Maggie Smith and Imelda Staunton behind the scenes
Dublin, Ireland
Gambon would go on to be cast in all of the remaining Harry Potter films. In 2018, Michael Gambon provided Professor Dumbledore's voice for Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
Gambon was born in Dublin during World War II. His father, Edward Gambon, was an engineer and his mother, Mary Hoare was a seamstress. His father decided to seek work in the rebuilding of London, and so the family moved to Mornington Crescent in north London, when Gambon was five. His father had him made a British citizen — a decision that would later allow Michael to receive an actual, rather than honorary, knighthood and CBE. (Although, under the British Nationality Act 1981 anyone born in Ireland before 1949 can still register as a British subject and, after five years of UK residence, as a British citizen).
Raised a strict Catholic, he attended St Aloysius Boys' School in Somers Town and served at the altar. He then moved to St Aloysius' College in Hornsey Lane, Highgate, London, whose former pupils included Peter Sellers. He later attended a school in Kent, before leaving with no qualifications at fifteen. He then gained an apprenticeship with Vickers Armstrong as a toolmaker. By the time he was 21 he was a fully qualified engineer. He kept the job for a further year – acquiring a fascination and passion for collecting antique guns, clocks and watches, as well as classic cars.
At age 19 he joined the Unity Theatre in Kings Cross. Five years later he wrote a letter to Michael MacLiammoir, the Irish theatre impresario who ran Dublin's Gate Theatre. It was accompanied by a CV describing a rich and wholly imaginary theatre career – and he was taken on.
Gambon made his professional stage début in the Gaiety Theatre, Dublin's 1962 production of Othello, playing "Second Gentleman", followed by a European tour. A year later, cheekily auditioning with the opening soliloquy from Richard III, he caught the eye of star-maker Laurence Olivier who was recruiting promising spear-carriers for his new National Theatre Company. Gambon, along with Robert Stephens, Derek Jacobi and Frank Finlay, was hired as one of the ‘to be renowned’ and played any number of small roles, appearing on cast lists as Mike Gambon. The company initially performed at the Old Vic, their first production being Hamlet, directed by Olivier and starring Peter O'Toole. Gambon played for four years in many NT productions, including named roles in The Recruiting Officer and The Royal Hunt of the Sun, working with directors William Gaskill and John Dexter.
After three years at the Old Vic, Olivier advised Gambon to gain experience in provincial rep. In 1967, he left the NT for the Birmingham Repertory Company which was to give him his first crack at the title roles in Othello (his favourite), Macbeth and Coriolanus.
His rise to stardom began in 1974 when Eric Thompson cast him as the melancholy vet in Alan Ayckbourn's The Norman Conquests at Greenwich. A speedy transfer to the West End established him as a brilliant comic actor, squatting at a crowded dining table on a tiny chair and sublimely agonising over a choice between black or white coffee.
Back at the National, now on the South Bank, his next turning point was Peter Hall's premiere staging of Harold Pinter's Betrayal, an unexpectedly subtle performance — a production photograph shows him embracing Penelope Wilton with sensitive hands and long slim fingers (the touch of a master clock-maker). He is also one of the few actors to have mastered the harsh demands of the vast Olivier Theatre. As Simon Callow once said: “Gambon's ‘iron lungs and overwhelming charisma are able to command a sort of operatic full-throatedness which triumphs over hard walls and long distances.”
This was to serve him in good stead in John Dexter's masterly staging of The Life of Galileo in 1980, the first Brecht to become a popular success. Hall called him ‘unsentimental, dangerous and immensely powerful’, even the Sunday Times’ curmudgeonly critic of the day called his performance ‘a decisive step in the direction of great tragedy...great acting’, while fellow actors paid him the rare compliment of applauding him in the dressing room on the first night.
From the first Ralph Richardson dubbed him The Great Gambon, an accolade which stuck, outshining his 1990 CBE, even the later knighthood, although Gambon dismisses it as a circus slogan. But as Sheridan Morley perceptively remarked in 2000, when reviewing Cressida: ‘Gambon's eccentricity on stage now begins to rival that of his great mentor Richardson’. Also like Richardson, interviews are rarely given and raise more questions than they answer. Gambon is a very private person, a ‘non-starry star’ as Ayckbourn called him. Off-stage he prefers to back out of the limelight, an unpretentious guy sharing laughs with his fellow cast and crew.
While he has won screen acclaim, no-one who saw his ravaged King Lear at Stratford, while still in his early forties, will forget his superb double act with a red-nosed Antony Sher as the Fool sitting on his master's knee like a ventriloquist's doll. There were also notable appearances in Old Times at the Theatre Royal Haymarket, and as Volpone and the brutal sergeant in Pinter's Mountain Language.
David Hare's Skylight, with Lia Williams, which opened to rave reviews at the National in 1995, transferred first to Wyndhams Theatre and then on to Broadway for a four-month run which left him in a state of advanced exhaustion. “Skylight was ten times as hard to play as anything I’ve ever done” he told Michael Owen in the Evening Standard. “I had a great time in New York but couldn’t wait to get back”.
Gambon is almost the only leading actor not to grace Yasmina Reza's ART at Wyndham's. But together with Simon Russell Beale and Alan Bates he gave a deliciously droll radio account of the role of Marc. And for the RSC he shared Reza's two-hander The Unexpected Man with Eileen Atkins, first at The Pit in the Barbican and then at the Duchess Theatre, a production also intended for New York but finally delayed by other commitments.
In 2001, he played what he described as “a physically repulsive’’ Davies in Patrick Marber's revival of Pinter's The Caretaker, but he found the rehearsal period an unhappy experience, and felt that he had let down the author. A year later, playing opposite Daniel Craig, he portrayed the father of a series of cloned sons in Caryl Churchill's A Number at the Royal Court, notable for a recumbent moment when he smoked a cigarette, the brightly lit spiral of smoke rising against a black backdrop, an effect which he dreamed up during rehearsals.
In 2004, he finally achieved a life-long ambition to play Sir John Falstaff, in Nicholas Hytner's National Theatre production of Henry IV, Part 1 and Henry IV, Part 2, co-starring with Matthew Macfadyen as Prince Hal.
Gambon as Albus Dumbledore
He made his film debut in the Laurence Olivier Othello in 1965 (in which Maggie Smith played Desdemona). He then played romantic leads, notably in the early 1970s BBC television series, The Borderers, in which he was swashbuckling Gavin Ker. As a result, Gambon was asked by producer Cubby Broccoli to audition for the role of James Bond in 1970, as a potential replacement for George Lazenby (ultimately, American John Gavin won the role, only to be replaced when Sean Connery agreed to return). His craggy looks soon made him into a character actor, although he won critical acclaim as Galileo in John Dexter's production of The Life of Galileo by Brecht at the National Theatre in 1980. But it was not until Dennis Potter's The Singing Detective (1986) that he became a household name. After this success, for which he won a BAFTA, his work includes films such as The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover, in which he played Albert Spica, a sociopathic gangster and the film's titular "thief". Interestingly enough, one of Gambon's character's underlings in this film was played by Ciarán Hinds, who would ultimately play Dumbledore's brother Aberforth in the Harry Potter films (although the two brothers never appeared onscreen together).
In 1992 he played a psychotic general in the Barry Levinson film Toys and he also starred as Georges Simenon's detective Inspector Jules Maigret in an ITV adaptation of Simenon's series of books. He starred as Fyodor Dostoyevsky in the Hungarian director Károly Makk's movie The Gambler (1997) about the writing of Dostoyevsky's novella The Gambler.
In recent years, films such as Dancing at Lughnasa (1998) and Plunkett & Macleane (1998), as well as television appearances in series such as Wives and Daughters (1999) (for which he won another BAFTA), a made-for-TV adaptation of Samuel Beckett's Endgame (2001), alongside David Thewlis playing Hamm and Clov respectively, and Perfect Strangers (2001) have revealed a talent for comedy. In 2004, he appeared in five films, including Wes Anderson's quirky comedy The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou; the British gangster flick Layer Cake; the theatrical drama Being Julia; and the CGI action fantasy Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow. (Interestingly enough, in this last film, he appeared alongside Jude Law, who would later play a younger version of Albus Dumbledore in the Fantastic Beasts franchise.)
Perhaps his most significant role in 2004, however, was that of Albus Dumbledore in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. Gambon took over the role from fellow Irish actor Richard Harris, who had died of Hodgkins' disease in 2002 (coincidentally, Harris had also played Maigret on television four years before Gambon took that role) and reprised the role in every subsequent Harry Potter film.
In discussing his portrayal of Dumbledore in the Harry Potter film series, Gambon has given detailed accounts. Particularly, he was quoted as saying that when portraying Dumbledore, he does not necessarily "have to play anyone". He further states, "I just stick on a beard and play me, so it's no great feat. I never ease into a role – every part I play is just a variant of my own personality. I’m not really a character actor at all." This suggests that Gambon chooses to act his performance based on his own intuitive interpretations of how a character would respond to certain situations. In short, Gambon has not deliberately aimed to follow the specific characteristics of Dumbledore, as referenced in the books, but rather developed an acting style in which he combines his own personality with that of his character. Not only had Gambon not read the books before being cast in the role of Dumbledore, he chose to not read any of the books after receiving the role, as he felt that "Actors can get a bit miserable when they read the book and realise, 'Oh, my scene from the book has been cut.' That's not the point."
Gambon, in comparison to Richard Harris, has portrayed Dumbledore as a more robust, vocal and rather eccentric wizard. Richard Harris's interpretation differed, opting for a far calmer demeanour on his character's part. The films have, so far, not attempted to address this discrepancy between Gambon's portrayal and Harris' quieter, less physically abrupt performance. As such, the Harry Potter series has followed the same path as the 1960s magic-oriented sitcom, Bewitched, which likewise changed a lead actor with no explanation ever offered.
Most recently, he was Joe in Beckett's Eh Joe, giving two performances a night at the Duke of York's Theatre in London. He currently does the voice over to the new Guinness ads with the penguins.In 2007 he played major roles in Stephen Poliakoff's Joe's Palace, and the five-part adaptation of Mrs Gaskell's Cranford novels, both for BBC TV.
In 2008 Gambon appeared in the role of Hirst in No Man's Land by Harold Pinter in the Gate Theatre, Dublin, opposite David Bradley as Spooner, in a production directed by Rupert Goold, which transferred to the London West End's Duke of York's Theatre, for which roles each received nominations for the 2009 Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actor. After Pinter's death occurred on 24 December 2008, Gambon read Hirst's monologue selected by the playwright for Gambon to read at his funeral, held on 31 December 2008, during the cast's memorial remarks from the stage as well as at the funeral and also in Words and Music, transmitted on the BBC Radio 3 on 22 February 2009.
In 2010, Gambon appeared in The Book of Eli, alongside fellow Harry Potter stars Gary Oldman and Frances de la Tour. The BBC also announced that Gambon would guest star in the 2010 Doctor Who Christmas special, A Christmas Carol, which was broadcast on Christmas Day that year. Gambon also appeared in the 2010 film The King's Speech as King George V .
Gambon played the character of Miles Mollison in the 2015 television series of Harry Potter author J. K. Rowling's The Casual Vacancy.
In 2017, he took over the role as Arthur in Kingsman: The Golden Circle, the second Kingsman film, which the role was previously portrayed by Michael Caine in the first film Kingsman: The Secret Service.
Gambon married Anne Miller when he was 22, but has always been secretive about his personal life, responding to one interviewer's question about her: "What wife?" The couple lived together in a country house near Gravesend in Kent, where Anne has her workshop. Gambon was invested by Prince Charles as a Knight Bachelor on 17 July 1998 for services to drama (Queen Elizabeth II's approval for the award was notified in the 1998 New Year Honours List) and his wife thus became Lady Gambon. The couple have a son, Fergus, who appears as an expert on the BBC's Antiques Roadshow.
While filming Gosford Park, Gambon brought Philippa Hart on to the set and introduced her to co-stars as his girlfriend. When the affair was revealed in 2002, he moved out of the marital home, but rather than moving in with his lover, he bought himself a bachelor pad. Philippa, who worked with Gambon on the film Sylvia in 2003, in late 2006 moved into a £500,000 terraced home in Chiswick, West London with her pet pug dog. In February 2007, it was revealed that Philippa was pregnant with Gambon's child, and gave birth to son Michael in May 2007. In October 2008, it was revealed that Philippa was pregnant with the couple's second child.
Gambon is a qualified amateur pilot, and his love of cars led to his appearance on the BBC's Top Gear programme. Gambon raced the Suzuki Liana and was driving so aggressively that it was launched into the air on the last corner of his timed lap. The final corner of the Dunsfold Park track has been named "Gambon" in his honour. He reappeared on the programme on June 4th, 2006, and set a time in the Chevrolet Lacetti of 1:50.3, a significant improvement on his previous time of 1:55. He clipped his namesake corner the second time, and when asked why by Jeremy Clarkson, replied that 'I dunno - I just don't like it'.
All items (7)
Colombus is the son of Alex Colombus and Irene Colombus. Columbus has been married to Monica Devereux since 1983. They have four children together, Eleanor, Violet, Isabella and Brendan.
His wife Monica made a small appearance in Home Alone as the red-headed flight attendant, and in Home Alone 2 as the Plaza telephone operator. Columbus lives in San Francisco's Pacific Heights, where his children attend or previously attended Saint Ignatius College Preparatory. He donated money to the school for a new building, which was named after him.
Alfonso Cuarón Orozco (b. 28 November, 1961 in Mexico City, Mexico) is a Mexican film director. He directed the third Harry Potter film in the successful Harry Potter series, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. Prior to directing the series, he had not read any of the books within the series and did not consider the idea of doing a "big special effects film" to be on his radar.
Cuarón made a great many changes to the Harry Potter film series, all of which were met with either great acclaim or stiff opposition by Harry Potter fans. Many caused serious continuity errors in relation to the previous two films, which were directed by Chris Columbus. These include Cuarón's changing the appearance and layout of Hogwarts Castle, by adding the Clock Tower, the Central tower and changing the location of Hagrid's Hut. He also changed the appearance of Filius Flitwick and the appearance of all wands in the films. Most of these changes were accepted by the two future directors.
When he was first signed on, he asked Emma Watson, Daniel Radcliffe and Rupert Grint to write a short essay on their characters. True to their characters, Emma turned in a 16 page essay, Daniel a one-page essay, and Rupert never turned his in.
Alfonso Cuarón grew up in Mexico City and went on to study both filmmaking and philosophy at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. After graduating, Cuarón began working in television in Mexico, first as a technician and then as a director. Cuarón's television work led to assignments as an assistant director for several Latin American film productions (including Gaby: A True Story and Romero), and in 1991, he landed his first big-screen directorial assignment.
Solo con tu pareja was a dark comedy about a womanising businessman who learns he's contracted AIDS; the film was a massive hit in Mexico, and was enthusiastically received around the world. Director Sydney Pollack was impressed enough with Solo con tu pareja that he hired Cuarón to direct an episode of Fallen Angels, a series of neo-noir stories produced for the Showtime premium cable network in 1993; other directors who worked on the series included Steven Soderbergh, Jonathan Kaplan, Peter Bogdanovich and Tom Hanks.
In 1995, Cuarón released his first feature film produced in the United States, A Little Princess, an adaptation of Frances Hodgson Burnett's classic novel. Cuarón's next feature was also a literary adaptation, a modernised version of Charles Dickens' Great Expectations starring Ethan Hawke, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Robert De Niro.
Cuarón's next project found him making a severe left turn; shot in Mexico with a Spanish-speaking cast, Y tu mamá también was a funny, provocative, and controversial road comedy about two sexually obsessed teenagers who take an extended road trip with an attractive woman in her thirties. The film's open portrayal of sexuality and frequent rude humour, as well as the politically and socially relevant asides, made the film an international hit and a major success with critics.
He also directed Children of Men, a film which was nominated at the Academy Awards for Best Cinematography.
In 2013, he directed George Clooney and Sandra Bullock in the drama Gravity. The film earned critical acclaim, with Cuarón taking home BAFTA, Golden Globe, and Academy Awards for Best Director, and sharing the Oscar for Best Film Editing.
Michael Cormac Newell was born 28 March, 1942, St Albans, Hertfordshire, England. He attended Cambridge University and then spent three years training at Granada Television.
Newell directed various British Television shows from the 1960s onwards (Such as Spindoe (1968), credited as Cormac Newell, and Big Breadwinner Hog). However, he eventually graduated into film direction and then he went on to make the horror film The Awakening (1980) and Bad Blood (1981) about a New Zealand mass murderer.
His first film was The Man in the Iron Mask (1977), made for TV. His first critically acclaimed movie was Dance with a Stranger (1985), a biographical drama starring Miranda Richardson as Ruth Ellis, the last woman to be hanged in Great Britain. For his directing efforts, Newell won the Award of the Youth at the 1985 Cannes Film Festival.
Newell continued his successes in the film industry with Enchanted April (1992), an adaptation of the 1922 novel The Enchanted April; Miranda Richardson received a Golden Globe for Best Actress in a Comedy/Musical and Joan Plowright won a Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy/Musical.
Mike Newell while directing on the set of Harry Potter film
The comedy Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994) was also critically acclaimed – it won numerous awards, including a César Award (Best Foreign Film), a Golden Globe, Best Actor - Hugh Grant, and a few London Critics Circle Film Awards (Best Director, Film, Producer, and Screenwriter).
Since these award-winning productions, Newell has directed a number of films in Hollywood, such as Donnie Brasco (1997) (starring Al Pacino and Johnny Depp), Pushing Tin (1999) (starring John Cusack, Billy Bob Thornton, Cate Blanchett, and Angelina Jolie), and Mona Lisa Smile (2003) (starring Julia Roberts, Kirsten Dunst, and Julia Stiles).
When he accepted the director’s position on Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, he became the first British director of the Harry Potter films. He was also the only director with personal experience of the British public/boarding school environment.
His first two Potter films became the highest-grossing entries in the series after the first instalment, which was later surpassed by Yates's Deathly Hallows, making him the most commercially successful British director in recent years.
Yates achieved international attention for his award-winning short films early in his career and is known for directing several television films and dramas, such as the critically acclaimed BBC political thriller State of Play and the BAFTA-lauded two-part drama Sex Traffic. One of his directorial trademarks is the use of the hand-held camera.
Among various awards, Yates has had success at the BAFTA Awards, Emmy Awards and has been acknowledged at the Saturn Awards. He is the only director in the series to win a Best Director award for his work on Harry Potter, winning the BAFTA Los Angeles Britannia Award for Directing Excellence in 2011.
David Yates was born in St Helens, England on 8 October 1963. From an early age he was fascinated with the works of film directors, with Steven Spielberg's 1974 film Jaws and the 1951 film The Thing from Another World being two favourites in particular. Yates went to see Jaws in the cinema, where at least a dozen of his subsequent 35 viewings took place. He attempted to understand the production and story elements of motion pictures, observing the characterisation, pacing and suspense and with each viewing, surveying the reactions of the audience. He began pulling friends and family into the cast of short films at the age of 14, using a camera his mother had given him. Yates followed up on a more academic track, taking up the subjects of sociology, political studies, and literature at St Helens College before moving onto the University of Essex and Georgetown University in Washington.
Living in Swindon in the 1980s, Yates became a freelancer for Create Studios whose facilities helped him make his first serious film, When I Was a Girl. The short film later made the festival circuit and helped with his acceptance into the National Film and Television School in Beaconsfield, where he studied under its directing programme. When I Was a Girl also marked Yates’ entry into the UK’s entertainment industry, with the BBC hiring him to make the dramatic short Oranges and Lemons in 1991. He also directed the short film The Weaver's Wife, along with Good Looks and an episode of the film studies programme, Moving Pictures.
From 1994 to 1995, Yates directed several episodes of the ITV police series The Bill, before directing three episodes of Tale of Three Seaside Towns and Punch. He then moved into his first feature film, a small independent called The Tichborne Claimant.
Yates returned to television to helm several episodes of the BBC miniseries, The Sins, along with directing a faithful adaptation of The Way We Live Now. Yates, along with writer Andrew Davies and producer Nigel Stafford-Clark, shared a BAFTA Award win for Best Drama Serial. One year later, Yates was back with a nomination for the short film, Rank.
The 2003 six-part thriller State of Play was Yates' next directorial achievement. The acclaimed TV serial, scripted and created by Paul Abbott, became a major turning point in Yates' career with it being recognised by various award ceremonies, notably achieving the Peabody Award for Broadcasting Excellence, along with Yates himself being nominated for a BAFTA TV Award and winning a Directors Guild of Great Britain Award for Outstanding Directorial Achievement. The quality of the serial sparked Hollywood film bosses to consider adapting it into a film, with producer Andrew Hauptman claiming that "it's a blistering political thriller and we want to make an equally blistering movie." Abbot sold the rights to Universal Studios, however Yates had little say in the matter as Abbot was the original creator of the serial. The film was eventually released in 2009.
Yates gained an Emmy Award nomination for his direction of Richard Curtis' script to the 2005 television film The Girl in the Café, starring Bill Nighy and Kelly Macdonald. The film won three awards, most notably the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Made for Television Movie, along with achieving four other nominations including Outstanding Casting by Fiona Weir, who was also the casting director of the Harry Potter films.
David Yates on the set of Order of the Phoenix
He received his highest-profile assignment in 2005 when he was chosen by Warner Bros. Pictures to direct the fifth Harry Potter film, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Before filming began, Yates visited Leavesden Studios and observed filming of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, which was directed by Mike Newell. Yates took Newell to a pub and "picked his brains about what it was going to be like to step into someone's shoes on a movie of this scale."
He was also involved in conversations with Prisoner of Azkaban director Alfonso Cuarón and author J. K. Rowling prior to the start of production on Order of the Phoenix. He was then reunited with old friends Mark Day and Nicholas Hooper, who had worked with Yates on some of his previous television credits as editor and composer respectively. At the end of the film, Yates makes a cameo appearance in a magical moving portrait which was accomplished during post-production. The fifth film opened to critical and commercial success, becoming an instant high performer at the box office as well as receiving many nominations and wins.
David Yates on the set of Half-Blood Prince.
Yates was then selected to direct the sixth entry in the series, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. During production of the film, Warner Bros. announced that the final novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, was to be split into two cinematic parts with Yates, once again, as the director. In an interview with the Directors Guild of America, Yates commented on the producers' decision to appoint him as director for the final films, declaring that "they wanted to do a Harry Potter that felt realer, and more grown up. What’s smart about the studio and the producers is they have always wanted to push it a bit. Chris [Columbus] did a wonderful job of casting and making this world incredibly popular. But rather than do more of the same, they said, 'Let's bring in Alfonso Cuarón and let him run with it. Then later, let's bring in David Yates, who’s done all this hard-hitting stuff on TV. It's a testament to their ambition to try and keep the franchise fresh. The bizarre thing is, I did one and they asked me to stay for three more, so obviously they liked something."
In an interview with The Daily Telegraph prior to the release of Half-Blood Prince, Yates stated that the film is "a little bit more grown up and a bit wittier" than his previous Potter entry. The sixth film adaptation became the second highest grossing film of 2009 and scored 88% from top film critics, with the results being compiled by Rotten Tomatoes. The film also won numerous awards, as well as being nominated for Best Cinematography at the 82nd Academy Awards. Yates worked alongside cinematographer Bruno Delbonnel and digital film colourist Peter Doyle on extensively colour grading the picture and developing the "choice of angles, the extreme close-ups, [and] the pacing of the scenes." Yates described the style and look of the film as "very layered" and "incredibly rich."
David Yates on the set of Deathly Hallows
Yates began to film the two parts of Deathly Hallows back to back in early 2009, with the final shoot taking place on 12 June, 2010. Yates stated that he filmed the two parts of the final motion picture differently, with Part 1 being "quite verite" and having a "road movie" style, while Part 2 is "much more operatic, colourful and fantasy orientated", a "big opera with huge battles". While on the set of Deathly Hallows, Yates gave an interview with the Los Angeles Times in which he spoke of working with Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint, the three lead actors of the series. "It was an extraordinary bit of judgement, bringing those three in. They have been so stable and level-headed and in working with them I continue to be impressed by how keen they are to challenge themselves and to try new things to bring out the characters that they portray."
Deathly Hallows Part 1 was released in November 2010 to generally positive reviews, with J. K. Rowling announcing it's her "favourite so far". Professional critics also praised the film, with the Broadcast Film Critics Association awarding the film 87/100, leading to a "Critic's Choice" certificate. Other reviews commented on Yates' directing style, with The Dallas Morning News stating that "David Yates' fluid, fast-paced direction sends up the crackling tension of a thriller." Another review claimed that "there's a good, solid, workmanlike integrity to what director David Yates does here", with a top film critic from the The New York Times expressing that Yates "has shown a knack for capturing and quickening Ms. Rowling’s storytelling rhythm. He has also demonstrated a thorough, uncondescending sympathy for her characters, in particular the central trio of Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger and Harry himself", rating the film 4.5/5 stars. At the world première of the film in Leicester Square, London, Harry Potter producer David Heyman stated that Yates "has done the most incredible job with these films".
Part 2 was screened in July 2011 and became an instant record-breaking success with universal acclaim; it is the most acclaimed Harry Potter film. The Daily Telegraph described Part 2 as "monumental cinema awash with gorgeous tones" and Total Film wrote that Yates combines "spectacle and emotion into a thrilling final chapter." Yates was praised for the "sharply directed" film and was acknowledged for his "genuine visual sense", with author J. K. Rowling remarking that "everyone who watches Deathly Hallows – Part 2 is going to see that he's steered us home magnificently. It's incredible."
Half of the Harry Potter franchise has been directed by Yates, who has helmed four out of the eight entries since 2006. Daniel Radcliffe commented on working with Yates and compared his directorial style with the previous directors in the series, saying that "he took the charm of the films that Chris [Columbus] made and the visual flair of everything that Alfonso [Cuarón] did and the thoroughly British, bombastic nature of the film directed by Mike Newell and he's added his own sense of grit and realism to it that perhaps wasn’t there so much before .... I think we all had a fantastic time working with David. I know we did."
Yates will direct Cicero, starring  Tom Hardy as  Al Capone. He was to direct the film adaptation of  Stephen King's novel  The Stand, with Steve Kloves writing the screenplay. However, he was replaced by  Ben Affleck.
Yates at a Los Angeles Harry Potter première
Hogwarts Legacy is an open-world action role-playing game set in the late 19th century within the wizarding world. Developed by Avalanche Software and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment under the Portkey Games label, the game was released on 10 February 2023 on PC, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X|S. It was originally going to be released on 4 April 2023 on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, but the release date was changed to 5 May 2023. It will also be released on the Nintendo Switch on 14 November 2023.
Players create a character capable of harnessing ancient magic who attends Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry beginning as a fifth-year student in the 1890s. During the gameplay reveal trailer in March 2022, a newspaper can be seen dated 1 September 1890. Players experience the life of the student as they "live the unwritten" and embark on a dangerous journey to uncover a hidden truth of the wizarding world.
Besides the protagonist, there are companion students such as Natsai Onai, a brave and justice-seeking Gryffindor, Poppy Sweeting, a kind and beast-loving Hufflepuff, and Sebastian Sallow, a charismatic Slytherin.
Villains include Ranrok (a goblin staging a rebellion against wizardkind) and Victor Rookwood (a Dark wizard operating in and around Hogsmeade).
The game was originally leaked on Reddit in October 2018 alongside an now-deleted unofficial trailer that showed extensive character creation, spell-casting, magical creatures, and exploration. No official comment was given by either Warner Bros. nor J. K. Rowling, although many reputable sources inside WB Avalanche, including high ranking employees, teased or claimed to know of the game.
The game was announced via a video game showcase stream by Sony on 16 September 2020. It was set to be available to players in 2021, but the date was later delayed twice, first to 2022, then to 10 February 2023 to continue developing the game for a better experience for players.
On 17 March 2022, PlayStation revealed a State of Play presentation that featured 20 minutes of gameplay and behind the scenes content. Community manager Chandler Wood revealed that the game will not have any microtransactions.
On 18 May 2022, Avalanche released an ASMR video showing some additional footage of the Hogwarts grounds, Hogsmeade, and an unidentified area which included a store called the Magic Neep. While it did not include any additional story information, it did confirm several locations including Zonkos, Dervish and Banges, and Steeply and Sons tea shop.
On 24 May 2022, PlayStation revealed that PS5 will have exclusives relating to the Dual Sense controllers.
The game had started development with actors portraying characters in the games. Actors were cast and were scheduled to start when the COVID-19 pandemic occurred. As a result, actors were forced to stay at home. The cast were forced to use the company Beyond Capture in Vancouver and employ Canadian actors. They used actors who were able to perform multiple actors; Direction and communication via Zoom.
On 12 August 2022, the official release date was revealed to be 10 February 2023 for PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series S and Xbox Series X. The Switch version would be ported later on.
A new exclusive trailer was unveiled at Gamescon on 23 August 2022, with a pre-order date on 25 August. A Digital Deluxe version was revealed in the same trailer, with a collector's edition revealed on 24 August.
On 13 December 2022, Avalanche delayed the game for Xbox One and PlayStation 4 until 4 April 2023.
On 6 March, the game on Xbox One and Playstation 4 was delayed from 4 April to 5 May.
Gameplay includes detailed character creation, spell casting, exploration, stealth, and elements of both the action and role-playing genres. As it is common for non-free console and PC games, no system of microtransactions is used, unlike the similar mobile game Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery.
The player is able to develop their own duelling style by combining different spells. They are also able to make specific allies; it is possible to become a Dark wizard or witch instead of following a hero path, though the ending will still be the same as the protagonist is lauded as a hero for saving Hogwarts.
The game is set in the Scottish Highlands, including Hogwarts and a vast territory around it. Broom flight can be used to reach farther locations, which includes wizard villages such as Hogsmeade. The developers have also confirmed a fast-travel system known as "Floo Flames". The scenery and other environments are highly detailed and intricate, weather events affect the environment, and the four climatic seasons are reflected in the landscape.
A Wizard's Field Guide is provided to the player which keeps track of their level. It also includes their map, quests, owl post, settings, challenges, collections, talents (which unlocks through the main story), inventory and gear.
This student (b. 1874/1875) was a witch or wizard who attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the late 19th century. They possessed the rare ability to perceive and use ancient magic, a trait which had been dormant for roughly four-hundred years since the days of the Keepers. This was a form of magic that was noticeably more powerful than ordinary magic, thus requiring the watchful mentorship of Professor Eleazar Fig, who guided and tutored them in their introduction to the wizarding world.
This student's journey coincided with Ranrok's goblin rebellion and the growing threat of the Rookwood Gang, a criminal organisation of poachers and extortionists organised by Victor Rookwood, the most notorious underworld player in Europe. Ranrok, on the other hand, was desperate to supplant wizardkind with goblins as the dominant magical species by way of discovering the final repository, a store of ancient magic created by Isidora Morganach and Ranrok's ancestor, Bragbor the Boastful.
Meanwhile, this student and Eleazar Fig were desperate to untap the true mysteries of this student's abilities. The student undertook various trials set by the Keepers, who wished to test their worthiness to wield ancient magic. The student also took opportunities to undermine their enemies along with their Hogwarts friends, Natsai Onai, Sebastian Sallow and Poppy Sweeting.
Facing the threat of death countless times, this student's fight against Rookwood ended in a duel where Rookwood was killed with a rebounded Killing Curse. Shortly afterwards, when Ranrok invaded the Keepers' Caverns beneath Hogwarts Castle with the aim of obtaining the final repository, this student, Fig, and several other Hogwarts professors successfully defended the castle, and by extension, the wizarding world. The student possibly contained ancient magic within the Repository, thereby becoming a Keeper themselves, or they possibly ingested it, acquiring greater power as a witch or wizard. By the end of their fifth year, they were regarded as a hero and saviour of Hogwarts.
The exact background of this student is unclear. At the age of fifteen, they were accepted as a late transfer into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry after their ability to harness ancient magic was discovered. They may have been a late-bloomer. They were in a London street near Big Ben when an owl dropped the Hogwarts acceptance letter into their hands.
On 1 September 1890, they travelled to Hogwarts with Eleazar Fig and George Osric from London by carriage, where Osric presented Fig with a mysterious, seemingly unopenable box. However, this student could see traces of ancient magic on the box and were able to open it simply by touching it, much to their surprise. Inside was a key. During their journey, the carriage was attacked by a dragon controlled by Ranrok's Loyalists. Fig and the student grabbed onto the key, which was revealed to be a Portkey that brought them to the ruins of Percival Rackham's house.
The student and Eleazar Fig in Vault 12
The path around the ruins was protected by walls created with ancient magic, which as the student was able to unlock, gave Eleazar correct suspicions that his student had unique abilities. Eventually, the two of them found a gateway that went to Gringotts Wizarding Bank, where they used the key to access Vault 12. After entering the vault, they were locked in, as the instructions given by Percival Rackham centuries ago had ordered the banker to do, and after completing various puzzles, eventually found their way to the heart of the vault, which contained a Pensieve.
The Pensieve showed a memory of Percival Rackham and Charles Rookwood discussing ancient magic that a future witch or wizard would eventually earn and master through the completion of the Keepers' trials. After viewing this memory, Ranrok, the leader of a goblin rebellion, burst through the doors, demanding what had been learned. Fig and the student managed to escape through another gateway, this time to Hogwarts Castle, where the student finally started the Sorting Ceremony.
This student about to be sorted by the Sorting Hat
The student was introduced to Phineas Nigellus Black, the Headmaster of Hogwarts, and then Sorted (albeit late) into an unknown House. They were escorted to their common room by Professor Matilda Weasley, the Deputy Headmistress. The next morning, the student met their fellow housemates in their common room and were given the Wizard's Field Guide by Professor Weasley. The Wizard's Field Guide was a book designed by the British Ministry of Magic to keep the student up to date on what they needed to know for their coming O.W.L. examinations.
The student attended Charms, where they played their first game of Summoner's Court and met Natsai Onai, as well as Defence Against the Dark Arts, where they befriended Sebastian Sallow after a friendly duel. Sebastian, who was quite impressed with this student, invited to them to the unsanctioned Crossed Wands duelling club, organised by Lucan Brattleby, to further hone their experience in duelling.
This student receiving their wand from Gerbold Ollivander
After class, the student was asked by Professor Weasley to visit Hogsmeade with one of their friends, either Sebastian or Natsai, so that they could gather supplies for the coming year: a wand from Ollivanders, a small pot and potions station from Tomes and Scrolls, some potions from J. Pippin's Potions, and some Dittany seeds from The Magic Neep. During their visit to Hogsmeade, a pair of Mountain trolls attacked the village under a coordinated assault by Ranrok and Victor Rookwood. The troll was defeated by the student and the streets of Hogsmeade were repaired, for which the people of Hogsmeade, such as Augustus Hill, were very grateful.
The student and their friend (Sebastian or Natsai) visited the Three Broomsticks Inn, where the barmaid, Sirona Ryan, had just finished speaking to a goblin named Lodgok. Shortly after, Victor Rookwood and Theophilus Harlow followed them. A standoff ensued between the criminals, the students, and Sirona. In the end, Rookwood decided it was not worth it and left; likewise, the student as well as they returned to Hogwarts with their friend.
Not long into the beginning of the year, they were summoned by Professor Fig who wished to explore the Hogwarts Library, but before they could, Fig was drawn away by Phineas Nigellus Black. As a result, the student approached Sebastian Sallow and asked him if he could help them into the Restricted Section, to which he agreed, having entered it many times before. They met at Central Hall at night, used the Disillusionment Charm as well as a distraction to bypass the librarian, Madam Agnes Scribner, and worked their way into the Restricted Section.
The Keepers in Feldcroft within the memory
There, they were accosted by Peeves the Poltergeist, who gleefully alerted Scribner to their presence. Sebastian returned but the student kept searching, eventually finding the Athenaeum, an ancient magic room below Hogwarts Castle defended by Pensieve Sentries. When the student reached the end of this chamber, they found a book hovering above a Pensieve which opened to release a memory of the Keepers. Within the memory, the Keepers replenished the village of Feldcroft after a drought in the 15th/16th century, encountering the young Isidora Morganach, a witch who, like this student, had the rare ability to see traces of ancient magic. Likewise, the student also learned that Percival Rackham, a former professor, also possessed this ability and had joined Hogwarts as a fifth year.
When the student finished viewing the memory and returned to the Library, he saw Sebastian being reprimanded by Scribner. However, Sebastian did not reveal the student's presence. The student returned to Professor Fig and informed them about the book in the Restricted Section, enabling Fig to conduct his own research into the book, as well as tasking the student with finding the missing pages of the book.
Following this adventure, the student took classes in Herbology, where they were taught about the Mandrake and the Chinese Chomping Cabbage and met Leander Prewett, a Gryffindor student in their year. They also took their first Potions class, where they were introduced to Professor Sharp, the Wiggenweld Potion, and the Edurus Potion. During this lesson, Garreth Weasley (another Gryffindor) asked them to steal a Fwooper feather from Sharp's office for his own potion. The student may or may not have completed this request.
The student also became further acquainted with Natsai Onai, whom they met at Lower Hogsfield and discussed bringing down Victor Rookwood and Ranrok with.
Once in Lower Hogsfield, the student heard Nora Treadwell, a travelling researcher, call out for help, as she was being attacked by Ashwinders. When the student fought them off, Nora rewarded them by teaching them about the Trials of Merlin, puzzles that had been laid by Merlin throughout the Highlands. She explained that sprinkling Mallowsweet was the way to initiate the trials, and asking if they could solve one. The student successfully did so by casting the Fire-Making Spell on three braziers surrounding the trial.
Richard Jackdaw, a troublesome ghost to whom this student became acquainted
This student participated in one of four possible adventures related to Richard Jackdaw. Firstly, they possibly went on a quest to retrieve Ollivander family's heirloom wand, a long-lost wand that had belonged to the Ollivander family in the 1790s, only to find that it had been destroyed. Secondly, they possibly went on a quest related to Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington. Thirdly, they possibly spoke to Helen Thistlewood to investigate the legitimacy of the false testimony that the late Apollonia Black had given to justify Anne Thisbe's incarceration in Azkaban in an attempt to exonerate Anne. Fourthly, they possibly investigated Apollonia Black's grotto at Scrope's behest to recover a Black family ring, which had in fact been stolen and sold by Richard Jackdaw during his life.
Following whichever of these adventures they embarked upon, the student eventually found the cave in which Richard Jackdaw's skeleton was contained and found that it was linked to the Map Chamber, the seat of the Keepers, four wizards and witches from the Tudor era who acted as the guardians of ancient magic. All but one of the large portraits within the Chamber were empty. The student spoke to the remarkably self-aware and intelligent portrait of Professor Percival Rackham, who informed them on his own ability to perceive ancient magic, and asked them to bring the book to him to prove their identity.
Following this, the student attended Flying class with Madam Chiyo Kogawa, where they learned to ride a broomstick, as well as being introduced to the Room of Requirement by Matilda Weasley. Professor Weasley was determined that the student should use the Room as a personal laboratory to perfect their potion-making and Herbology, thus teaching them the appropriate Conjuring Spells as well as the Vanishing Charm to assist in the creation and removal of magical furniture.
The first trial of this student's worthiness began as they were instructed to seek out San Bakar's Tower, the former home of Professor San Bakar, one of Percival's fellow Keepers. Joined by Eleazar Fig, the student defeated the goblins defending the Tower before being informed by another portrait of Rackham on the existence of an underground ancient magical construction beneath the Tower. Eleazar Fig was forbidden from aiding the student, thus beginning the trial.
The student solved various puzzles within these chambers and fought off several Pensieve Protectors – animated statues whose purpose it was to defend the trial from corrupt forces, as well as challenging the student's individual power. When they were defeated, the student had to defeat the Pensieve Guardian, an enormous and deadly animated statue, which they eventually managed to best in combat.
The statue of Percival Rackham above the Pensieve
A teardrop fell from a large statue of Percival Rackham hovering above a Pensieve, which the student then viewed. The memory presented Isidora Morganach as a student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry being tutored by Percival Rackham in the art of ancient magic. In particular, Isidora was shown constructing pillars out of an island's terrain. The student was also shown Isidora's concerns about her father following her brother's death, as he had slumped into a depression. Isidora was determined to find a way to use her powers to relieve her father of his pain. The student was shown, many years later, that Isidora Morganach had become the Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts at the school, as well as Isidora inviting Percival Rackham and Charles Rookwood to an evening at her house. After this, the memory cut short. The student received a peculiar artefact, and Charles Rookwood's portrait appeared in the Map Chamber, willing to speak to the student.
The student was informed that there would be a purpose to this artefact, as well as to the other artefacts they would acquire from subsequent trials, and Charles was also informed by Percival about the worrying situation regarding Ranrok's goblin rebellion.
The student meeting Highwing
After Rackham's trial, the student had their first Beasts class, where they cared for a Puffskein and some Kneazles. They also met Poppy Sweeting, an animal-loving Hufflepuff student, who introduced them to a Hippogriff to whom she was acquainted named Highwing. They also met the Hogwarts caretaker, Mr Gladwin Moon, who taught them the Unlocking Charm and asked them to illegally sneak into the Faculty Tower and remove some Demiguise Moons in the dead of night.
With his journey to defeat Ranrok, this student travelled to the Three Broomsticks Inn in Hogsmeade to ask the barkeep, Sirona Ryan, on the identity of the goblin to whom she had been speaking on 2 September. She revealed him to be Lodgok and said that he would likely be at the Hog's Head Inn, where the student summarily went.
As the student told Lodgok that they were trusted by Sirona, Lodgok promised to reveal Ranrok's plans to him under the condition that the Helm of Urtkot was retrieved for him. Lodgok's intentions were that he could present Ranrok with the Helm to distract him from his search for the final repository.
The student entered the Collector's Cave, wherein they were required to solve various puzzles with the Wand-Lighting Charm to attract moths to magical doorways, operating the insects as keys. After fighting various Inferi that lurked within the Cave, the student finally found the Helm of Urtkot in a chest. Following this, they were ambushed by a troop of Ashwinders, whom they defeated. They finally presented the Helm to Lodgok, who thanked the student, agreed it would be enough to impress Ranrok. However, Lodgok let slip that Ranrok was searching for something, confusing the student and making them suspicious that he had not been telling the whole truth when he claimed he was ignorant.
After this journey, they were taught more about the nab-sack and the Vivarium by Deek. They rescued a Mooncalf, a Puffskein, and a Jobberknoll.
The Sallow family
This student was invited by Sebastian Sallow to his family home in Feldcroft. They received a lecture on the lawlessness of the region, including the interest that Ranrok's Loyalists had taken into Rookwood Castle, as well as the history of the curse that Anne Sallow had received two years prior. They visited Sebastian's home, witnessing an argument between he and his uncle, Solomon Sallow, over the ability of a Shrivelfig to cure Anne. In short, it was clear that while Sebastian was determined to find a cure by any means necessary, Solomon was unwilling to entertain this, believing it only to be false hope for Anne, and only wanted to keep her comfortable during her period of illness. Sebastian was gravely dismayed by his uncle's line of thought.
But they decided to explore further into the town. After battling some goblins, they reached the house of Isidora Morganach, though her portrait had been burned. They found that her house linked to the Undercroft via a secret passage made of ancient magic, which finally got Sebastian thinking about what was so special about his friend. Indeed, the student revealed their secret – that they were able to use ancient magic – much to Sebastian's confusion and bewilderment, as he could not tell the difference between the Keepers as an institution, and the Quidditch position of Keeper.
When they returned to the Undercroft, they found a triptych set against the wall. Two of the canvases had been torn out and only a Rune Diagram page was left inside, thus beginning Sebastian and this student's investigation into yet another mystery.
Shortly afterwards, at midnight, this student took their first Astronomy class with Professor Satyavati Shah. There, they became further acquainted with Amit Thakkar, a Ravenclaw student in their year, who explored an Astrology Table on the Hogwarts grounds with them.
As Natsai Onai's independent investigation into Victor Rookwood and Theophilus Harlow continued, she discovered that he had poached two Hippogriffs, including Highwing, whom the student had met earlier that year.
Natsai Onai and the student after saving the Hippogriffs
The student travelled to Falbarton Castle, where they battled the various members of the Rookwood Gang stationed within the keep, before escaping atop Highwing and the other Hippogriff on the top storey. Following this, the student developed a close friendship with Highwing, who became one of their mounts, joining the other creatures in the nab-sack.
The student was asked to meet Professor Fig in the Map Chamber, which they did. They informed Fig about their plans with Lodgok and the activity of the goblins near Rookwood Castle in Feldcroft. The student informed Charles Rookwood that his descendant, Victor, was an ally of Ranrok's goblin rebellion, and Charles asked the student to seek out the source of power located beneath Rookwood Castle before it could fall into the wrong hands.
Rookwood Castle, Feldcroft
Eleazar Fig and the student set off for Rookwood Castle, which they summarily infiltrated. At the same time, Ranrok and Victor Rookwood argued over who was more senior in their alliance, and whose goals were more worthy of action, as their partnership slowly began to fray. The student went down to the cellar of the castle, where they found a depleted repository of ancient magic. They spoke to Charles' portrait, who urged the student to begin the second trial to prove themselves.
Like Percival Rackham's trial, the student was seemingly transported to an ancient magic dimension detached from the physical world – or perhaps Apparated to a place deep underground. They had to perform some puzzles and defeat several Pensieve Protectors, and finally one Pensieve Guardian, before finally viewing Charles' Pensieve memories, which told them the truth about Isidora Morganach.
This memory showed Isidora inviting the Keepers to her home, where she introduced her father to them. She used her father as a demonstration of her pain extraction spell, whereby she cured him of his depression. The Keepers were shocked at this, urging her to stop what she was doing, arguing that ancient magic should not be used in this way.
With this, the 1890–1891 school year transitioned into winter.
As Poppy Sweeting learned about Horntail Hall, a secret dragon fighting den established by the Poacher Pack, she invited the student to investigate. They infiltrated the Hall, where they saw a group of poachers torturing a Hebridean Black. They intervened, fought the poachers, and freed the dragon in the process. The newly freed dragon ate one of the nearby poachers before burning the rest to death with its fire, with the student and Poppy remaining safe due to well-timed Shield Charms. The student used the Fire-Making Spell spell on the roof of the fighting ring, allowing the dragon to escape, and also rescued the dragon's egg.
Meanwhile, Sebastian had finished his investigation into where the single untorn canvas of the triptych was located. He met the student at the Overlook, just north-east of Upper Hogsfield, nearby an abandoned mine that had since become a headquarters for Ranrok's Loyalists. They possibly approached the mine stealthily, using the Disillusionment Charm, or approached noisily with a fight.
Nevertheless, once inside the mine, the student was forced to defeat a number of goblins, along with Thornback spiders and two Matriarch spiders. By the end, they found a secret chamber that had once been occupied by Isidora Morganach, possessing several handwritten notes that spoke about her pain-extracting methods, along with the second piece of the triptych.
Once back in the Undercroft, they placed this piece of the triptych. Sebastian recognised the location, but warned there was more trouble waiting. Following this, the student informed him that he had been speaking to Lodgok about Ranrok's rebellion, which Sebastian was disgusted at, considering it to be fraternising with the enemy.
The student met with Amit Thakkar, who could read Gobbledegook, and brought him to Lodgok, who told them the entirety of Ranrok's plans: that he had uncovered journals belonging to his ancestor, Bragbor, which mentioned repositories of ancient magic: "large, magically fortified receptacles crafted from goblin metal". Lodgok finally mentioned that Ranrok was determined to acquire these repositories for himself to supplant wizardkind with goblinkind as the dominant magical species.
The student and Amit entered the Mine's Eye, a goblin mine located in the Highlands. They defeated a number of Ranrok's Loyalists and stole scrolls and notes bearing Ranrok's plans. Amit identified that Ranrok was building large drills – larger than they had any reason to be – which the student found suspicious.
Once they left the mine, Lodgok told the student about his history with Miriam Fig, Professor Fig's late wife, and how due to the kindness she showed to him, he decided to abandon Ranrok's side and work with wizardkind, rather than against them. Lodgok also warned the student that if Ranrok did discover and use the repositories, that a war would ensue.
With time of the essence, the student spoke to Niamh Fitzgerald, the third of the four Keepers, to begin her Trial. However, as it was located in the Headmaster's office, the student required a disguise to sneak in. Professor Fig had pre-brewed some Polyjuice Potion, which the student used to impersonate Headmaster Phineas Nigellus Black. They queried Scrope on the password to the Headmaster's office ("toujours pur") and, once in, spoke to the portrait of Professor Fitzgerald.
Death in Niamh Fitzgerald's trial
This Trial was unlike any the student had previously experienced. Ascending to the top of the Headmaster's office, they were transported into the world of Niamh Fitzgerald's book. They had to dodge the line of sight of the various minions of Death, and were eventually given the Cloak of Invisibility which made this easier. Afterwards, they were given the Elder Wand, supposedly the most powerful wand in wizarding history, and engaged in battle with various assailants with general ease.
They were then given the Resurrection Stone and shown a vision of Niamh's funeral, before finally reaching Niamh's Pensieve, which showed the student a memory of Isidora Morganach. In the memory, Niamh and Isidora were pictured walking through the grounds of Hogwarts Castle as Isidora talked about how she was able to contain the strands of ancient magic in her own repositories. Isidora also attempted to use the pain extraction spell on Niamh without her permission, though she was stopped before any damage could be done.
As the student finished the trials, the portrait of Professor San Bakar, the last of the Keepers, arrived in frame. However, he was reluctant to allow the student to begin his trial without before consulting with his fellow Keepers.
As it became clear to Sebastian that ancient magic offered a way to "extract pain", he was determined to get the student to ask the Keepers on how to use this spell. However, the student never did, resulting in their friendship becoming slightly more tenuous. Nonetheless, Sebastian was still on this quest as much as his friend, so they ventured to a mountain in Marunweem to find the last piece of the triptych.
Sebastian, the student, and the completed triptych
They fought various Thornback spiders and two Matriarchs. After this, they defeated a Mountain Troll. They found their way through the mountain, which had tunnels and halls etched into its caves, before eventually finding yet another room that had been used by Isidora Morganach within her lifetime. The room contained, as expected, the last segment of the triptych, allowing it to be completed.
When the triptych was completed, a Pensieve appeared in the Undercroft, showing a memory of the creation of the repositories by Bragbor, the goblin ancestor of Ranrok and Lodgok, commissioned by Isidora herself. As it became evident to Sebastian with his own eyes that there was a way to cure people of their ailments, he begged the student to find a way to cure Anne through ancient magic.
Lodgok sent an owl stating he found one of Ranrok's drills in a mine along the shore with intentions to destroy it after reasoning with Ranrok had been met with failure. He invited the new fifth-year student to join him, but he stated that even if the student didn't show, he would get in contact with them after he returned. He added that he had something to give them but did not state what.
Ranrok had completed the drill within the mine the student was meeting Lodgok. After taking out the support pillars to sabotage the drill, Ranrok chided the student that there would be more. Unfortunately, Rookwood had caught Lodgok moving about in the mines, and they discovered what he was intending to bring to the student after he destroyed the drill. Ranrok revealed that Lodgok was his little brother and naive to have ever trusted wizarding kind. They could never be equals, and he said even the young learn to hide their disgust just to get what they want. Lodgok denied this, and the enraged Ranrok used his magic to blast his brother fatally into the wall in front of the horrified student.
The student escaped in the resulting collapse of the mine cavern by rail cart lamenting they understood why Lodgok was trying so hard to convince Ranrok of the way of peace.
The student returned to the Map Chamber to report to Professor Fig and the Keepers the news that Ranrok now knew where the last repository was and that Lodgok had intended to bring the last journal of Bragbor to her when he was killed. San Bakar's portrait revealed they had Obliviated Bragbor, but the Keepers had no idea he kept journals. The student revealed that it was Isidora that had tipped Bragbor off on the nature of what he was creating, and that she had left memories for someone to find.
The student was directed to meet Professor Fig at San Bakar's Pensieve to complete their final trial.
Highwing
The Lord of the Shore
As an only child, she grew up in Matabeleland, Africa, with a tribe, wandering the Matobo Hills with her father who was a giraffe Animagus, and watching her mother use divination to help protect their tribe from less-than-friendly neighbours. Her father was killed protecting her by local bandits when she was nine years old. She and her mother later moved to Uganda where she attended Uagadou. During such time, she learned to be an Animagus, learning to transform into a gazelle.
Just before her fourth year, she transferred to Hogwarts when her mother took up a role as professor of Divination. She had to learn how to use a wand at Hogwarts, as hardly anyone at Uagadou used one, and Natsai still found wandless magic to be more instinctive and convenient. It took her weeks to get anything right when she transferred but it kept getting easier.
During the 1890–1891 school year, took Ancient Runes as an elective class, which her mother had chosen for her.
On 2 September 1890, when the new fifth-year student arrived to Charms class, she invited them to sit beside her. They played a game of Summoner's Court together. At the end of the lesson, they briefly spoke to each other where she told the student she was impressed with their skills. However, Professor Ronen thought she appeared to be distracted recently.
Natsai was a fierce competitor and a gifted student. According to Lenora Everleigh, she had a knack for solving riddles.
Sebastian Sallow (b. 1874/1875) was a Scottish wizard and a Slytherin student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry during the late 19th century. Born to two professors at the school who died when he was young, he and his sister, Anne, were raised by their uncle Solomon Sallow, an ex-Auror. When Anne was cursed by Victor Rookwood, she developed a seemingly incurable illness. He tried everything from Nurse Blainey to St Mungo's to no avail, and eventually became convinced that the Dark Arts was the last hope for her.
From an early age, he had a mastery of the Unforgivable Curses, and considered other curses such as Confringo to be among his favourites. His quest to unravel the secrets of Dark Magic, justified by finding his sister's cure, eventually culminated in the murder of his uncle, possibly resulting in Sebastian's expulsion from Hogwarts and trial at the Ministry of Magic.
Sebastian was born in 1874 or 1875 alongside a twin sister, Anne. They were raised by two professors who ingrained a thirst for knowledge into them, but also a sense of optimism and open-mindedness, which Sebastian would later hope to emulate. Their parents died when they were young after a lamp in their cellar poisoned them with an undetectable toxin. They were taken in by their uncle Solomon Sallow who lived in a home in Feldcroft.
On 1 September 1886, at the age of eleven, he and his sister started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where they were both sorted into Slytherin house.
Sebastian and his fellow students in a Herbology class
He became best friends with Ominis Gaunt, a fellow Slytherin in his year, and he, Ominis, and Anne would often go to the Undercroft, a secret area within Hogwarts Castle that Ominis knew about through his family, to play Gobstones and hang out. As Ominis himself was deeply uncomfortable with his family owing to his own childhood experiences, Sebastian entertained him at their home in Feldcroft, developing an even closer bond. The first time Sebastian and Ominis practiced the Blasting Curse, they singed their eyebrows. As a student, Sebastian was known for wanting to expand his knowledge beyond Hogwarts' main curriculum.
Sebastian's life changed before his fifth year at Hogwarts, when Anne was attacked and cursed during a raid on their house in Feldcroft, presumably by Ranrok's Loyalists, but actually by Victor Rookwood, resulting in her suffering from an illness. It left her in constant pain and unable to attend Hogwarts. Sebastian wanted to cure her, and after trying everything from Nurse Blainey to St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, came to confide in the Dark Arts as her last hope. After this incident, Sebastian developed a strong hatred for goblins, preferring them dead than alive.
Sebastian became one of the top duellists within the Crossed Wands duelling club organised by Lucan Brattleby, and was typically considered one of the most fearsome duellists in Hogwarts at the time.
On 2 September 1890, the first day of his fifth year, he was duelling with Leander Prewett in Classroom 3C when the skull of Dinah Hecat's Hebridean Black skeleton was dislodged. Hecat levitated the skull back into place and reprimanded them.
During the Defence Against the Dark Arts class, he became acquainted with the new student whom he had been assigned to duel. Impressed by their skill, he invited them to the unsanctioned Crossed Wands duelling club. Sebastian was a possible combatant during the Troll attack on Hogsmeade later that day, had he been invited by the student to visit Hogsmeade. However, it was also possible that they could have invited Natsai Onai.
Agnes Scribner catching Sebastian Sallow sneaking in the Restricted Section
Sebastian enlisted this student's help to enter the Restricted Section, where Sebastian hoped to gleam more information on a cure for Anne. They were caught when Peeves reported them to the librarian Agnes Scribner. The student continued to explore the Restricted Section while Sebastian went up to take the blame, with the student finding the Athenaeum, and by extension, the Map Chamber. When the student returned to the surface, they hid while Scribner confronted Sebastian, who took the blame and did not reveal the student's presence.
When the friendship between this student and Sebastian became more apparent, Sebastian introduced them to the Undercroft and taught them Confringo. Nobody except Anne and Ominis Gaunt knew about the Undercroft until this point, so this only cemented the level of trust between the two. Sebastian later brought this student to his house, where they had a confrontational meeting with Solomon Sallow, leaving Sebastian bitter and upset. After this, Sebastian showed the student the place that Anne had been cursed: a house up on a hill in Feldcroft. They fought off some goblins surrounding the house together, and found that inside it was an ancient magic passageway to the Undercroft. There, the student explained their ability to use and perceive ancient magic. When they re-entered the Undercroft, they found a triptych that contained hints of locations linked to the Keepers, with two of the panels missing. Sebastian went to investigate the are depicted in the remaining panel.
Sebastian found that the panel of the triptych linked to a place called the Overlook near an abandoned mine that was currently a headquarters of Ranrok's Loyalists. He invited the new student to see for themselves, and they started a mission to infiltrate the mine. They fought off various Loyalists and discovered an ancient room that had belonged to Isidora Morganach, with a journal entry that spoke of her mission to heal people. They also found a second part of the triptych.
The students returned to the Undercroft through an enchanted stone surface similar to the one in Isidora Morganach's house. There, Sebastian said that he recognised where the triptych linked, but that there would be more trouble in going there. As the student brought up their private dealings with Lodgok, a goblin, he lashed out at the student for trusting goblins – the same people who, as Sebastian assumed, had cursed his sister, Anne, several years ago.
The final part of the triptych depicted a mountain in Marunweem – another cavern appropriated by Ranrok's Loyalists. He invited the new student along, and they discussed how Sebastian was doing this to find a cure for Anne. Their conversation was brief and somewhat argumentative, as Sebastian was starting to become frustrated with not being able to find a cure for Anne. They ventured up the mountain, battling several Loyalists, before infiltrating Tower Tunnel.
Sebastian, his friend, and the completed triptych
After beating countless Thornback spiders and Matriarchs, the students were faced with a Mountain troll, which burst its way through the wall of the cavern. They defeated the troll and found another hide-out of Isidora Morganach, with a fragment of the triptych inside. They re-entered the Undercroft as before, and with the triptych complete, a Pensieve appeared, showing Morganach's memory of her meeting with the Keepers: Niamh Fitzgerald, Percival Rackham, Charles Rookwood, and San Bakar, at her house in Feldcroft.
Within the memory, she spoke to her father, saying that while she could not bring her brother back, she could give her father peace. In a later segment, she used her signature pain extraction spell on her father, ridding him of all negative emotion, much to his satisfaction – though, as Sebastian's friend knew already, was highly controversial to the Keepers, who believed it was irresponsible for magic to have been used in such a way. A third segment showed Morganach speaking with Bragbor the Boastful, a goblin, about the construction of a repository to house the extracted emotion, which had begun to accumulate in jars in her house. She claimed that she only needed to keep it safe until she could convince her colleagues of its worth.
When Sebastian and his friend returned to the physical world, Sebastian was inspired by the scene, desperately hoping for an ancient magic cure for Anne's illness. Sebastian attempted to persuade his friend to use their powers in the way Morganach did, or even to attempt to persuade the Keepers to allow such magic themselves.
In the end, however, his friend never did use their powers to cure Anne Sallow.
Sebastian casting the Cruciatus Curse on his friend to pass into Slytherin's Scriptorium
When Sebastian heard about the existence of Slytherin's Scriptorium, he enlisted this student and Ominis Gaunt's help in discovering the chamber. Before accessing the chamber, however, the trio met a door that required the usage of the Cruciatus Curse to pass. Sebastian was willing to both cast or accept the curse if it meant discovering the secrets within, as he believed they could be used to help Anne. Ominis was reluctant throughout the entire journey, and once they were finished, he urged Sebastian to end his quest. Sebastian did not.
Sebastian discovered Slytherin's Spellbook inside the Scriptorium, a compendium written by Salazar Slytherin that gave insights into his student's assignments in a nearby cave.
Sebastian asked his friend to join him in this cave, where they fought spiders and found this medieval student's notes hinting at the existence of a dark relic that could cure ailments. This made Sebastian even more determined to discover this relic, which he eventually did, though the pair realised they had been followed by Ominis, who urged Sebastian again to stop his meddling with the Dark Arts, but Sebastian continued.
A wounded Anne with Sebastian
Shortly after leaving, they found Feldcroft ravaged by Ranrok's Loyalists. Sebastian and his friend fought off various goblins before finding a wounded Anne Sallow in a field outside their home. Anne was about to be killed by a unidentified goblin, so Sebastian used the Imperius Curse to force the goblin to commit suicide. After this, Sebastian attempted to raise Anne up to the ground, but she refused his help. Solomon came over, evicted Sebastian from their household, and forbade him from coming near them again.
The murder of Solomon Sallow
Near the end of the 1890–1891 school year, Sebastian entered the Feldcroft Catacomb to seize the relic. After acquiring it, he manipulated Inferi within the catacomb to serve him, an action which threatened the safety of the whole village. He was followed by his friend, who had to battle through the Inferi to reach him, and then either supported or condoned his behaviour. They were then discovered by Solomon Sallow, who summoned the relic before nonverbally destroying it. Sebastian attacked his uncle, leading to a duel between the three wizards, which eventually resulted in Solomon's death. Anne Sallow arrived at the catacomb, attacked her brother with the Banishing Charm, destroyed the remaining Inferi, and Apparated away with her uncle's corpse. Following Solomon's murder, Ominis Gaunt wanted to turn Sebastian in for his crime.
A wounded Sebastian after the duel in the catacombs
Ominis and Sebastian's friend possibly agreed to turn him in, leading to Sebastian's expulsion and trial at the Ministry of Magic. Likewise, there was a possibility that he was not turned in, and their knowledge of what transpired in the catacombs was kept secret.
Following the memorial ceremony for Eleazar Fig, Sebastian became aware that it had been Victor Rookwood, and not a goblin, that had cursed his sister.
Sebastian was charismatic, unafraid of detention and breaking rules. He was undaunted and determined to pursue his goals, always unbothered by defeat. He was willing to use the Dark Arts to help his sister and justified it with her condition. He did not view magic as good or evil, but rather a tool to achieve his goals. He was optimistic, a trait his parents also had. He relied on their memory to stay open-minded and persistent, pursuing and using knowledge as a guide.
Sebastian flanked by his possessed Inferi in the catacombs of Feldcroft
Solomon deeply admired and respected his parents, seeking to emulate their optimism, open-mindedness, and eagerness for knowledge. He had been instructed by his parents to read every book he could from an early age – a lesson which followed him throughout his teenage years.
Sebastian and Solomon
Sebastian's relationship with his uncle and guardian, Solomon Sallow, was notoriously poor. Solomon constantly berated Sebastian's stubbornness and refusal to accept that Anne Sallow could not be saved, detesting his nephew's involvement with the Dark Arts. Meanwhile, Sebastian was unwilling to accept his uncle's reluctance to fully treat his sister, viewing him as "let[ting] her suffer". Solomon Sallow was the only individual who did not fall prey to Sebastian's natural charisma, correctly perceiving him as intelligent and dangerous. After dabbling with the Dark Arts, he evicted Sebastian from their home and forbade him from interacting with his sister, after which relations between the two fully eroded. In the end, Sebastian started a duel with his uncle after he destroyed the relic that could have saved Anne and despite Solomon's last attempts to make Sebastian see reason, Sebastian ended up murdering him in a rage. Despite all that happened between them, however, Sebastian still never wanted to kill Solomon and was genuinely remorseful for what happened.
Sebastian and Anne in their home
Sebastian dedicated two years of his life to a pure attempt to heal his sister, Anne, though his efforts were arguably misguided, as Anne did not wish to be cured by the Dark Arts. Sebastian, however, was willing to go to any means to save her, viewing magic not as 'good and evil', but as a tool to meet his own ends. After Solomon's murder, Sebastian's relationship with Anne completely fractured: Anne was utterly devastated that he would murder his uncle, and Sebastian was remorseful that he had only increased her suffering. She left their home and left a letter for her brother, in which she said that she still loved him, but that it was unlikely that she would ever be able to forgive him. Although Sebastian was willing to keep his distance from Anne for now, he retained hope that one day he and his twin would be able to reconcile.
Ominis Gaunt, Sebastian's best friend
Ominis Gaunt was Sebastian's oldest friend from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and Sebastian found himself very quickly to be the only person that Ominis could trust, as Ominis had no good relations with his own family. Sebastian would invite Ominis to his home in Feldcroft, and they quickly formed a close, brotherly bond.
Sebastian considered Ominis to be his close friend, but this didn't stop him from manipulating and lying to him in order to further his own goals. In their fifth year at Hogwarts, Sebastian could convince Ominis to open Slytherin's Scriptorium, which Ominis was heavily uncomfortable with, so that Sebastian could acquire a cure for Anne. Additionally, Sebastian constantly promised not to venture deeper into the Dark Arts while only continuing to do so, and because of this, there were repeated conflicts between them. Ominis was strongly attached to Sebastian and continued to defend his actions, even if he did not fully approve of them.
The final straw for their relationship was the murder of Solomon Sallow. After that, Ominis was very disappointed in Sebastian and wanted to turn him in. However, he didn't want to lose his best friend and left the final decision to their mutual friend. He would agree with any of the decisions. Even after everything that happened, Ominis still cared a lot about Sebastian and would continue to be friends with him in any case.
This student and Sebastian
This student became one of Sebastian's closest friends within their fifth year, as well as a companion to many of his engagements. They shared various secrets with one another, with Sebastian informing them on the existence of the Undercroft and his life story, and the student telling Sebastian about their intuitive ability to control ancient magic. The two went on various quests to understand the truth behind ancient magic and bring down Ranrok's goblin rebellion. It is possible that the student developed a distrust for Sebastian as he urged him to cease his meddling with the Dark Arts, or fully supported the necessity of his actions.
After Solomon's murder, in the 'In the Shadow of Fate' side-quest, the player has the ability to decide whether to turn Sebastian in, as Ominis Gaunt wishes, or not.
Garreth Weasley (b. 1874/1875) was a wizard and Gryffindor student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 19th century. His aunt was Professor Matilda Weasley. He was known to experiment with self-created brews of magical drinks.
At the age of eleven, he started his education at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, being sorted into Gryffindor House.
In his fourth year, he watched Natsai Onai levitate a book in the Great Hall when the spell was suddenly ended by an unexplained magical disturbance.
He became deeply passionate about potions, even going so far as to invent some, and using his family as 'test subjects' for his various experiments. During his time at Hogwarts, his aunt Matilda Weasley served as the Deputy Headmistress, keeping a watchful eye over him. He spent the summer of 1890 perfecting a recipe for a drink, which he took to Hogwarts with him to test the reactions of other students. Garreth concluded it was nearly done.
In his fifth year, he obtained a Fwooper feather from Professor Aesop Sharp's office, hoping to use it for his Wiggenweld Potion in class. When he added it to his potion, he caused it to fail and spark. Even though Garreth was very passionate about potions and liked to be creative, Professor Sharp did not appreciate his inventions. That same year, Garreth had an idea for  Fizzing Whizzebee-inspired beverage for which he needed a key ingredient, dried Billywig stings. He asked a new student if they could help retrieve the ingredient from Honeydukes' cellar. He did not want to try himself because Matilda wanted him to focus on Potions class instead of his own inventions. He told them to use the secret One-Eyed Witch Passage which led to the cellar. He was glad when they returned with the Billywig stings, telling the student he would let them know when he created the first batch of his concoction.
Great Britain
Professor Phineas Nigellus Black (1847 – 1925) was a pure-blood wizard born to the House of Black. He was the younger brother of Sirius Black I and the older brother of Elladora and Iola Black. He attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as a member of Slytherin House, later becoming the school's least popular Headmaster. He banned Quidditch during the 1890–1891 school year, and did not participate in resisting Ranrok's goblin rebellion as most members of the staff did. he married Ursula Flint and together they had five children: Sirius, Phineas, Arcturus, Belvina and Cygnus.
Following his death in 1925, his portraits were hung in the Headmaster's office to offer advice to the current Headmaster, as well as at 12 Grimmauld Place, the ancestral home of the House of Black which was used as the Order of the Phoenix headquarters. He was able to travel between both portraits, allowing him to play a contributing role during the Second Wizarding War.
Phineas Nigellus, as depicted in the Black family tree tapestry
Phineas Nigellus was born to the House of Black in 1847. He had three siblings; Sirius, Elladora, and Iola Black.
The siblings were raised in a household that strongly believed in the importance of blood purity, and as such Phineas carried a grudge against Muggle-borns, whom he called "Mudbloods" and considered "simple".
At the age of eleven, circa 1858, Phineas Nigellus began his schooling at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he was Sorted into Slytherin House. He was once reprimanded by Dinah Hecat for having eaten a Sugar Quill in the middle of a lecture.
Some time after leaving school circa 1865, Phineas Nigellus married Ursula Flint, and at the age of 30, the two had a son, Sirius, named after his deceased brother. Four more children followed: Phineas, who did not inherit his father's views on pure-blood supremacy and was disowned by the family for supporting Muggle rights; Arcturus, Belvina and 
Cygnus.
As an adult, Black became a professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, a job which he loathed due to the impertinence of his students. He was later appointed as the Headmaster of Hogwarts by the British Ministry of Magic, accepting the position only for the prestige associated with it, and showing very little interest in acting as a role model or in children's education. While he was Headmaster, his two sons Sirius and Phineas both attended Hogwarts.
Before the 1890–1891 school year, the Ministry charged Black with arranging the arrival of a Hogwarts student who would be starting late as a fifth-year. As the Deputy Headmistress Matilda Weasley insisted that the student would need a mentor to be prepared for their enrolment, he assigned the task to Professor Eleazar Fig. He also worked with the Department of Magical Education to secure a Wizard's Field Guide to help them with their studies.
Professor Black meeting Professor Fig and the new fifth-year student outside the Great Hall
On 1 September 1890, Black oversaw the Sorting Ceremony. After the last first-year student was sorted, he noticed Fig watching from outside the Great Hall and went to meet him as well as the new fifth-year. He informed Fig that the ceremony was over and stopped Fig from telling him about goblins, which he regarded as mere rumours. He nevertheless allowed the student to be sorted and led them into the hall.
Professor Black telling the students his decision of banning Quidditch
After it was done, Black announced that the year's Quidditch season was cancelled due to a pure-blood student having been injured in the previous spring's final. This elicited noticeable dissatisfaction among the students, but he reminded them that they were there to focus on their academic futures before hurrying them off to prepare for the next day's classes. He then asked Professor Weasley to show the new fifth-year to their common room.
Professor Black summoning Professor Fig from his office
Throughout the school year, Black remained oblivious while countless world-threatening developments occurred around him, such as Ranrok's planned invasion of the school. He peremptorily occupied Professor Fig's time when he was about to visit the library with the new fifth-year student, asking him to go to London to talk to the Minister for Magic about George Osric's death. When the new fifth-year student needed to use Polyjuice Potion to disguise as Black and obtain the password to the Headmaster's office, Fig asked Black to meet a liaison at Hogsmeade to draw him away, during which Black became inebriated rather quickly.
Professor Black leading a toast for Professor Fig
When Ranrok eventually did invade, with the aim of obtaining the final repository and supplanting wizardkind with goblinkind, Black was not present at the battle that ensued. Black led an awkward and flippant tribute to Professor Fig, who had died in the battle, at his memorial ceremony in the Great Hall, and notably, he was reluctant even to appreciate the sheer heroism and skill of the new fifth-year student who had taken down Ranrok personally.
Scrope cleaning a bust of Phineas Nigellus Black in the Faculty Tower
Black was known to weave his pure-blood supremacist values into the administration of the school. In his role, he attempted to persuade Minister Faris Spavin to change the Hogwarts admissions process, very likely to favour pure-bloods and restrict Muggle-borns, though his request was declined. On another occasion, he failed to discipline two students who were bullying a half-blood victim, claiming that "the wise rabbit doesn't seek to outrun the tortoise – because it's not necessary." His bigotry was fairly well-known, as students throughout the school could be heard claiming that he hated anybody who was not a pure-blood Slytherin.
In general, much of his work, whether it was administrative or related to student safety, was overtaken by Professor Weasley, while he preferred to be Headmaster only for the rewards it brought to his social position. His great-great-grandson, Sirius Black III, would later describe him as the least popular Head the school had ever known.
Professor Black died in 1925 at age 78. At the time of his death, Phineas Nigellus had five children, at least thirteen grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. Many more would be born after he had died.
Black's portrait in the Headmaster's office did not seem to enjoy assisting Albus Dumbledore, believing that he was eccentric and disagreeing with his pro-Muggle-born beliefs.[citation needed] The second portrait of Black was hung at 12 Grimmauld Place, and like other portrait subjects in the wizarding world, Black could travel between his portraits, which he did often.
In 1995, Harry Potter stayed in the bedroom where Black's portrait was hung, and Black took him messages from Albus Dumbledore. His voice could sometimes be heard coming from the frame when he was not in it, making sarcastic comments. His portrait had also been trained to ridicule those with Muggle parentage. One of the main messages that Black passed was when his great-grandson Arthur Weasley was attacked by Nagini whilst on duty for the Order of the Phoenix, letting Sirius know he was going to have company.
Dumbledore talking with Black's portrait
During Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger's quest to destroy Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes, Black's Grimmauld Place portrait was hidden in Hermione's magically enlarged beaded bag, to stop him from being able to report their location to Severus Snape, then Headmaster of Hogwarts. His portrait was then taken with the trio when they left the house.
During this time, Black reluctantly dropped certain snippets of information on what was going on in Hogwarts to them, aiding them in their quest. He managed to find out where they were camping and informed Severus Snape, who was able to give them Sword of Gryffindor. He appeared happier to help Snape than he was when helping Dumbledore, probably proud to help another Slytherin Headmaster.
Black possibly watched the Battle of Hogwarts in 1998. After Lord Voldemort's defeat, he saw Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger at the Headmaster's office; like all the Headmaster portraits, he celebrated Hogwarts's victory, and proudly brought up the fact that Slytherin house had contributed to it. He very likely would have continued to help future Headteachers after the Second Wizarding War.
In 2019, Black's portrait was captured by the Calamity and began to appear around the world as a Foundable.
Professor Black was a clever-looking wizard, with black hair, "shrewd, narrow" eyes, a pointed beard and thin eyebrows. He was depicted posthumously in his portrait as wearing the green and silver colours associated with Slytherin House.
Black's portrait
In his portrait form, Black was shown to be a snide, sarcastic individual. He had little patience for the feelings and the problems of others, particularly young people, whom he found tedious and self-absorbed, and had no qualms whatsoever in using demeaning phrases when referring to others. He did however show respect towards certain individuals such as Severus Snape. He also acknowledged Albus Dumbledore's skills despite generally disagreeing with him. He also seemed to support blood purity since he looked down on Muggle-borns and even used the pejorative term "Mudblood". Black even harboured a hatred for half-bloods, considering Mundungus Fletcher to be "manky".
Despite his views on blood purity, he did not support the Death Eaters, and celebrated with the other portraits when Lord Voldemort was finally defeated. He seemed sentimental of the Black family possessions, as he was quite dismayed upon learning that Mundungus Fletcher was stealing and selling them. He also seemed to care for his family members, even ones who were disowned, as he was upset at learning about the death of his great-great-grandson, Sirius Black. He appeared to hold many of the qualities that are fitting of Slytherin House: cleverness, ambition, cunning, self-preservation, determination, fraternity, traditionalism, and pride.
Phineas Nigellus Black's older brother, Sirius, died in childhood. He had two sisters: Elladora, who began the family tradition of beheading aged house-elves, and Iola, who was disowned for marrying Muggle Bob Hitchens.
Phineas Nigellus's great-great-grandson Sirius, last of the Blacks, standing in front of the Black family tree
Phineas Nigellus Black was married to Ursula Flint. They had five children: Sirius, Phineas, Cygnus, Belvina, and Arcturus. Phineas was disowned for supporting Muggle rights, showing that Phineas Nigellus valued pure-blood supremacy over his relationships with close family members.
Though Black did not get along well with most people, his portrait was upset to learn his great-great-grandson Sirius Black, the last of the surname Black, was dead in 1996, and was visibly upset when he learned that Mundungus Fletcher was stealing Black family heirlooms the following year. This could have been from dynastic or emotional reasons.
Albus Dumbledore
Black was Headmaster during Albus Dumbledore's years as a student at Hogwarts, but Black did not seem to hold much respect for his former student and distant successor. While others, including Harry Potter and Rubeus Hagrid, considered Dumbledore the greatest sorcerer in the world, Black considered him to be too eccentric and to be wasting his time by trying to understand the students. Dumbledore, however, always took Black's criticisms lightly. Although Black was trained to advise future Headmasters, he was known to despise advising Albus Dumbledore.
Black's opinion of the man went on even after Dumbledore's self-planned death at the hands of Severus Snape in 1997, and he proceeded to admire Snape, who later became Headmaster himself, considerably more.
However, after Dumbledore escaped from being arrested by the Ministry of Magic in 1996, Black commented to Cornelius Fudge that although he disagreed with Dumbledore on many accounts, one couldn't deny that he had style. This may indicate that Black had a little bit of admiration for Dumbledore.
Severus Snape
Any relationship with Black before Severus Snape became Headmaster of Hogwarts School is unknown, but by the time that Snape was appointed to the post in 1997, Black came to greatly admire Snape, who was the first Head of the school to have once been in Slytherin since he himself had presided over the castle. Whenever others would insult Snape, Black would immediately end the conversation, although this disliking of anyone who insulted the subject of his respect did not carry so far as to stop other factors, such as curiosity, from refusing to speak to them indefinitely.
Snape himself, however, resented Black's tendency towards slurs directed at Muggle-borns, immediately demanding that Black never used the term "Mudblood" after Black let the phrase slip in Snape's presence.
Harry Potter, a Gryffindor student
Despite being Headmaster, Black was known to dislike most of the students of Hogwarts, and had no real ambition to be seen as a role model or any interest in the students' education. This was possibly a reason why Sirius Black believed he was the least popular Headmaster Hogwarts ever had. He believed that the young people didn't respect the professors enough, something that he told Albus Dumbledore when Harry Potter wanted to learn why it was so important to take Horace Slughorn's memory.
Furthermore, when Harry tried to convince Dumbledore that both Draco Malfoy and Severus Snape were loyal Death Eaters, Black said that young people believe that they are right about everything. However, Black might have had a good relationship with the Slytherin students, whom he described as brave, but not stupid.
Phineas is the English form of the name Phinehas, used in some English copies of the Old Testament. According to the Bible, Phinehas was a priest during the Israelites' journey to the Exodus, the grandson of Aaron and son of Eleazar, the High Priests. Some theorise that its meaning is "serpent's mouth" in Hebrew, something that fits in with the fact that Phineas was during his time as a student part of Slytherin house, whose emblem is a snake; as well as with the rest of the Black family, which was traditionally associated with that house, being the one in which most of its members were sorted.
Professor Eleazar Fig (d. 1891) was a wizard who studied at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and later taught Magical Theory there in the late 19th century. He and his wife Miriam's lives were entangled with the search for ancient magic, with Eleazar chosen to mentor a young witch or wizard who started Hogwarts late as a fifth-year and had the ability to detect and harness said ancient magic. He accompanied them as far as he could as they followed the path set by the Keepers, uncovering the secrets of the ancient magic repositories and Ranrok's goblin rebellion, which earned him an uneasy scepticism from the Ministry. He died during their final battle against Ranrok and was honoured as a hero.
Born into a family of unknown wizarding descent in or before the 19th century, in his youth, Eleazar attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he was Sorted into Gryffindor House.
At some point in his life, he met a witch named Miriam whom he eventually married, and ultimately abandoned his ambition of pursuing a career at the British Ministry of Magic in favour of accompanying her on her many travels around the world, and partook in the research that she did into what appeared to be the disappearance of ancient magic. At some point, he and Miriam eventually also met the Ministry official George Osric, whom the couple was known to have been friendly for multiple decades.
Having eventually grown weary of his wife's quest and ended up settling into a comfortable teaching career whilst she continued her work on her own, Eleazar eventually took the job of Magical Theory professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he proceeded to become known to be an accomplished yet enigmatic figure. When Miriam was killed during her travels, however, he was guilt-ridden and felt responsible because he was not there to save her, and resolved to both uncover how and why she died, as well as finishing her work.
Professor Fig meeting George Osric
Before the start of the 1890–1891 school year, Fig was tasked by Headmaster Phineas Nigellus Black to meet a new student who was accepted into Hogwarts five years later than normal and bring them up to speed. He gave them a second-hand wand to tutor them with, and accompanied them on their journey to Hogwarts. He also gave instructions to George Osric, who had sent him an owl, to meet in a secret alleyway where he and the student were preparing to leave in a carriage.
Professor Fig examining the case
While they were travelling, George showed Eleazar the Daily Prophet issue of the day, the front page of which was about Ranrok's goblin rebellion, and they discussed how big a threat he was. George revealed an item sent to him by Eleazar's late wife Miriam in desperation. He and Eleazar found it difficult to open, but the student saw it glowing and opened it by simply taking it in their hands, revealing a mysterious key.
Professor Fig summoning the Portkey wandlessly
Their journey was disrupted when an evil-possessed dragon destroyed the half of the carriage that George was sitting in, forcing Fig and the student to fall out before the dragon burnt the other half. Fig urged the student to grab his hand, and summoned the key wandlessly, which turned out to be a Portkey that transported them to a mysterious cliffside place in the Scottish Highlands. There, they saw some ruins on an island, which Fig believed was where the Portkey was supposed to lead them.
Professor Fig using the Mending Charm on the bridge
They ran towards the ruins, during which Fig had to use the Mending Charm to repair the broken bridge that led to the island, and found an entrance only initially seen by the student, which turned out to be a private entrance of Gringotts Wizarding Bank. Fig woke up a sleeping Goblin Banker, who was surprised to see the visitors and asked for their key. The student reminded Fig to give the banker the Portkey, and the banker proceeded to bringing them to Vault 12 via Mine Cart, during which they passed the Thief's Downfall.
Professor Fig and the student travelling via Mine Cart
On their way to the vault, they encountered another goblin, who the student noticed was wearing an armband that had the same glow as the dragon's collar. Upon learning they were heading towards Vault 12, the goblin showed dismay but allowed them to pass. They arrived outside the vault, and Fig learnt from the banker that no one had visited it for centuries until that day. The banker used the key to unlock the door, and when Fig and the student went in, the banker relocked the door per the instructions given to him. Fig then taught the Revelio Charm to the student and asked them to reveal more passages using it.
Professor Fig and the student studying the statue and its reflection
They entered a vast space, where the student saw magical traces and activated the magic from a glowing area on the floor, causing the floor to change. The student then used the Revelio Charm to reveal a statue, which didn't match with its reflection on the floor. While Fig used the Wand-Lighting Charm and walked around, the student realised that the reflection rotated to line up with the source of the light. Fig then encouraged the student to use the Wand-Lighting Charm themself, and when they adjusted the reflection to the right direction, it started moving and was joined by multiple other statues, which Fig and the student had to defeat.
Professor Fig and the student having viewed Percival Rackham's memories
Afterwards, Fig urged the student to stay close, but was suddenly transported away from the student, who had to deal with another wave of animated statues on their own. When he was able to rejoin the student, he found that they were in the presence of a Pensieve and a bottle of memories. He poured them into the Pensieve and, together with the student, viewed two wizards (Percival Rackham and Charles Rookwood) constructing the vault and talking about the path they had set up that was intended to lead only the right individual to the things they were protecting. Fig then realised that the student had the ability of sensing traces of ancient magic, the knowledge of which Miriam and George had died in pursuit of.
Professor Fig and the student encountering Ranrok
Before they could finish their conversation, Ranrok, accompanied by the two goblins they'd seen earlier and others, entered and demanded that they gave him whatever they had found in the vault. They then witnessed Ranrok killing the banker who was trying to stick to the instructions he had received. When Fig refused to give Ranrok anything, Ranrok proceeded to redirect his attention onto the student, which angered Fig. They cast spells towards each other, and Ranrok blasted Fig and the student back. A Pensieve Guardian was then activated in the chamber and fought Ranrok, while Fig and the student went through a magical doorway and found themselves near the Hogwarts Castle.
Professor Fig and the student meeting Headmaster Black
They arrived outside the Great Hall, and Fig listened and found that the Sorting Ceremony was still underway. He could not accompany them into the hall, and intended to head to the Ministry of Magic to report George's fate and his experiences. He opened the doors and gained the attention of Professor Black, and as Black walked towards them, he asked the student to prepare themself for the unpleasant presence of the Headmaster. Black informed them that the ceremony was over, and brusquely dismissed Fig when he tried to explain their late arrival. As the student was allowed to be sorted nonetheless and guided into the Great Hall, Fig said that he would stay in touch with them.
Professor Fig running into Professor Weasley and the student on the next day
On their first day, the new student was speaking to Professor Matilda Weasley when she started asking questions about what they and Fig had done on their way to Hogwarts. Fig interrupted their discussion before the student could say too much, and spoke briefly about the student's rare aptitude for magic. She questioned why he did not take a normal route to Hogwarts, but instead flew into the path of a dragon, and Fig pointed out he didn't fly into it, but rather it chose to find them. With that, Professor Weasley left Fig to explain the details of the Wizard's Field Guide map to the student.
Professor Fig talking to the student
When she left, he asked the student if they talked about the ruins they explored. He reminded them it was right to keep the details secret. Given their rare ability, he thought it was important they were well-trained. He showed the student a clever thing they included in the Field Guide map which they enchanted to help the student find their way. He also encouraged the student to buy a wand from his good friend Gerbold Ollivander, and suggested they focus on their studies for now until he had more to share about the locket they had found.
Professor Fig talking to the student
While the student was busy, Fig studied the locket and found an inscription, and when he read it aloud, a map of Hogwarts appeared. Though he couldn't discover anything special about it, he suspected the student would see something on it that he couldn't. He also heard about the student defending Hogsmeade from a troll attack. When Fig met the student again in his office, they told him about the trolls' armour which had the same dark glow as the dragon's collar, suggesting they were controlled by Ranrok, but Fig couldn't understand how.
Professor Fig presenting the map
Fig was further surprised when he heard that Ranrok had been there in Hogsmeade with Victor Rookwood looking for the student by setting up the trolls as a distraction, which could mean that they were after the locket. He told the student what he had found and showed them the map, and the student saw traces of magic around the Restricted Section of the Hogwarts Library. Considering the apparent danger of the path they had embarked on, he asked the student to work more on their defensive magical skills with Professor Dinah Hecat before visiting the library, and went to let Hecat know when to expect them, indicating to her a certain urgency to the student completing the tasks.
Professor Black summoning Fig to work
After the student finished Hecat's assignments and learnt the Fire-Making Spell from her, they reported back to Fig, who commended their efforts and prepared to head to the library at once. However, Professor Black came and informed Fig he had work to do. Fig tried to protest, but Black ignored him and asked him to come to the Headmaster's office shortly, believing Fig should be willing to make amends after the dragon incident. Seeing it unwise to provoke the Headmaster further, Fig intended to postpone their visit to the library until he was done with Black.
Professor Fig examining the book
When he went to see Black, the Headmaster insisted that Fig go to London and speak to the Minister for Magic about George Osric's death. On another day, he was talking to Professor Aesop Sharp about Ranrok working with Rookwood when the student came, having returned from a trip to the library on their own and acquired a book from below the Restricted Section. Fig was curious about their trip, but first opened the book to examine, and found some pages missing, meaning somebody had already accessed the book, though he still wanted to study the rest of it.
The student telling Fig about the memories
He wondered why the book was stored below Hogwarts, and the student told him about the two more memories they had witnessed, the first being Percival Rackham and three other professors using ancient magic to save a hamlet (Feldcroft) from a draught, about which Miriam had also learnt something, and the second being the professors talking to another student (Isidora Morganach) who started Hogwarts as a fifth-year and could see traces of ancient magic. Fig thought he might discover from the book the reason why these particular memories had been chosen, and explained that he needed to take it to London to study along the way. He reminded the student to continue their studies and pay attention to Herbology and Potions while trying to look for the missing pages.
The student telling Fig about their hunt for the missing pages
Fig's conversation with Minister Faris Spavin turned out to be difficult, as the Minister talked more than he listened and wouldn't hear a word about goblins. After Fig returned to Hogwarts, he was caught up by the student who had found the missing pages from Richard Jackdaw's remains and, following the map on the pages, located a room below Hogwarts. Fig found himself not surprised by this and prepared to go with them to the room, while the student suggested they needed the bring the book from the library.
Professor Fig and the student entering the Map Chamber
On their way, the student informed Fig that the room was called the Map Chamber and housed Percival Rackham's portrait, which Fig looked forward to meeting. He also asked them about how Jackdaw had gotten the pages, and learnt that he had stolen from Peeves. They entered the chamber, and Fig placed the book on a magical pedestal, which activated below the floor a three-dimensional map of regions of the Scottish Highlands, from which he recognised Hogsmeade, the Forbidden Forest and the Hogwarts Castle. He then looked towards the four huge empty portraits and lamented that Miriam was not able to see all of this.
Professor Fig and the student speaking to Percival Rackham
They walked towards Rackham's portrait while he came into view, and the student introduced Fig to him as their mentor. Rackham greeted both of them, and spoke about the abilities the student had proven to possess, and the four trials that they needed to complete on their own to unlock their full potential and gain invaluable knowledge, revealing that he, as well as Charles Rookwood the memories at Gringotts had shown, were members of the Keepers active centuries ago who had been keeping the secrets of ancient magic and making sure they would not fall into the wrong hands.
Professor Fig and the student finding the tower in the map
While Rackham believed it would take time for the student to learn and make their decisions, Fig brought the threats posed by goblinkind to his attention, which prompted him to highlight the location of their first trial on the map, and explain that Fig could only help the student with locating the trial, but not completing it. Fig examined the map and found that the trial was at a tower north of Hogsmeade, one which he remembered to be seemingly abandoned but clearly concealed more, and asked the student if they could recognise it. He intended to go first to make sure it was safe before meeting the student there.
During the battle in the Keepers' Caverns, Fig was killed by Ranrok. He was fondly remembered by the students and staff of Hogwarts, and a memorial ceremony was held in the Great Hall shortly after his death.
He was a kind and knowledgeable person.
Professor Fig summoning the Vault 12 key mid-air without a wand
The name consists of the Hebrew phrase "El" and "Ezer" and means thanksgiving to God. In the Bible, Eleazar was one of the sons of Aaron, was in charge of the ark, and upon the death of his father was appointed high priest.[citation needed]
Before or in the 19th century, Abraham Ronen was born into a family of unknown wizarding descent. He had a rather austere father that tutored him at home. As a result of this, he made a game of his studies to enjoy learning. He was particularly fond of Gobstones. In his youth, Abraham attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he was Sorted into Slytherin House. His experience with his professors at the school was not as cheerful as he hoped, something that he wished for his students to avoid when he later became a professor himself. He allegedly met his wife during a lively Gobstones tournament.[citation needed]
By 1883, he became the school's Charms Master and was granted Classroom 2E on the third-floor and an office in which to work. To the delight of most of his students, his unorthodox teaching style often incorporated gameplay, including the creation of a Summoner's Court area for student to practise the Summoning Charm.
He still held the position during the 1890–1891 school year, which saw the arrival of a new student who began their attendance at the school as a fifth-year, something that was highly irregular. For the first fifth-year class, he asked his students about the difference between the incantations of the Colour Change and Growth Charms, and seeing that they could not answer the question without looking it up, he wondered how much the students had forgotten over the summer and looked around to see if anyone was capable of performing the basic Summoning Charm. He then started a review by letting students use the charm to summon the textbook out of each other's hands. Afterwards, he brought the students outdoors and conjured a board of Summoner's Court and a few balls. He let the new fifth-year student try it out before making them compete against Natsai Onai.
That year, at the request of the Deputy Headmistress Matilda Weasley, Professor Ronen also gave extra assignments to and held remedial classes for said student as part of a special curriculum designed to help them catch up to the educational level of their other classmates. This included asking the student to use the Summoning Charm on flying Wizard's Field Guide pages, and teaching them the Mending Charm. At some point later, he faced the student himself in another round of Summoner's Court.
Abraham Ronen in the battle for the final repository
At the end of the school year, when Ranrok invaded the Keepers' Caverns with the aim of obtaining the final repository and supplanting wizardkind with goblinkind, Professor Ronen defended Hogwarts Castle against his army of Loyalists and trolls, ensuring the safety of not only the school, but also the wizarding world as a whole. Ronen was present at the memorial ceremony for Eleazar Fig which took place after Ranrok's final defeat at the hands of the late-coming student he had helped to teach that year.
He had a jovial and lighthearted personality with a perpetual twinkle in his eye. He considered his students' friendships and extracurricular activities to be just as important as the subject of Charms itself. However, he had the tendency to drone on a bit and the students had to remind him to end the lesson.
"Abraham" is a male given name: from a Hebrew word meaning "father of many".
"Ronen" is a Hebrew surname and given name. Its meaning is "cheerful and singing".
Professor Aesop Sharp (b. circa 1858) was a wizard who worked as an Auror for the British Ministry of Magic, and later as a Potions Master at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 19th century.
Aesop was born into a family of unknown wizarding descent in or before the 19th century. He attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he was Sorted into Slytherin House.
After leaving Hogwarts, Aesop joined the British Ministry of Magic and landed a position in the Auror Office. On 31 December 1875, Aesop was issued a memorandum from the office about Borgin and Burkes's suspicious activities and the decision for Aesop to join the Aurors who were watching the shop.
At some point in his career, he and his partner were working an assignment when they were ambushed, resulting in a severe injury to him and death to his partner. When it became clear that this meant he would be relegated to a desk and tedious paperwork for the rest of his career, Aesop decided to retire from the Office, and felt his time would be better spent passing on what he knew to the next generation of young witches and wizards at his old school. Part of the motivation to apply to the job of Potions Master at Hogwarts was to use the resources there to cure his injuries.
Professor Sharp teaching a class
His wish of sharing his extensive experience involving battleworthy draughts and elixirs with the students came to fruition when he was offered the job of Potions Master at the school, at which point he was granted a classroom down in the dungeons to teach in. In time, he became widely known for his challenging lessons and lack of patience with misbehaving students, but also for his genuine pride in those who exceeded in the class.
Professor Sharp was teaching at the school during the 1890–1891 school year, when a new student started school as a fifth-year, something highly unusual. As the school year advanced, Professor Sharp gave extracurricular assignments to this student to help them catch up on their magical knowledge, asking them to brew and use certain potions and teaching them how to cast the Banishing Charm and the Severing Charm. He was also known to have assigned students of unknown year an essay on invisibility, as well as one comparing potions of the Middle Ages to those of the Black Death.
Aesop Sharp in the battle for the final repository
At the end of the year, when Ranrok invaded the Keepers' Caverns with the aim of obtaining the final repository and supplanting wizardkind with goblinkind, Aesop Sharp defended Hogwarts Castle against his army of Loyalists and trolls, ensuring the safety of not only the school, but also the wizarding world as a whole. He fought two trolls alongside his colleague, Eleazar Fig, who died to Ranrok later in the battle. Aesop Sharp was present at the memorial ceremony for Eleazar Fig which took place after Ranrok's final defeat at the hands of the late-coming student he had helped to teach that year.
He had long brown hair, and a beard. He wore a three-piece suit with a brown overcoat, light brown vest, a white shirt with a brown tie, and brown trousers. He walked with a very noticeable limp in his left leg.
Sharp had a gruff and keenly acute nature, who was not easily impressed by his students and was a difficult taskmaster. Although he was wholly unwilling to suffer fools in his class, he was by no means entirely unreasonable in his methods, as he was known to take genuine pride in students who excelled in his class in spite of his challenging curriculum.
Aesop Sharp's Auror Badge, which he kept on his desk at Hogwarts in the 1890–1891 school year
Professor Matilda Weasley (fl. 19th century) was a witch who lived during the 19th century. In her youth, she attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, before going on to work for the British Ministry of Magic as a Curse-Breaker. Later, she returned to her old school, becoming the professor of Transfiguration and, eventually, Deputy Headmistress.
Matilda was born into the wizarding Weasley family and attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where she was sorted into Gryffindor House. Noted to have been an "exceptionally talented witch", she was presumably a gifted pupil.
In her second year, she met and befriended Deek, an old house-elf employed in the school's kitchens, and together, they discovered the Room of Requirement. She would visit the room many more times throughout her schooling, at one point forgetting her school bag there, which she recovered only while showing the room to a new student during the 1890–1891 school year, much to her delight.
After graduating, Matilda joined the British Ministry of Magic as a Curse-Breaker. Her calming presence and extraordinary wandwork allowed her to rise quickly through the ranks. Around this time, Matilda also befriended Chiyo Kogawa, a Mahoutokoro-educated witch of the Japanese Ministry of Magic, whom she stayed in touch with over the years that followed.
At some point during her Ministry career, Matilda met and fell in love with a Curse-Breaker named Paul, who reciprocated her feelings, and before long, Matilda had resigned her position at the Ministry in favour of travelling the world with him as freelance Curse-Breakers. With time, however, Matilda began to miss her family, the stability of a settled life, and the camaraderie of working with a talented group of witches and wizards. As Paul had no desire to "stop moving", their romance ended, and Matilda settled back down in Britain by herself.
At some point, she worked with Chiyo Kogawa in Yokohama, a time described as "eventful".
Matilda Weasley at her desk in Classroom 1B
At some point before the 1890s, Matilda became the professor of Transfiguration at Hogwarts, and proved herself to be a stern yet fair-minded instructor regarded for her ability to combine a good sense of humour with an air of authority. She was also eventually promoted to the position of Deputy Headmistress, in which capacity her students found her to be "slightly intimidating".
In her role, she took great care to supervise and discipline her nephew, Garreth Weasley, who was a student at the school in her care, though Garreth felt his aunt was too overbearing and protective.
As Headmaster Phineas Nigellus Black had delegated her the job of handling staff appointments, she recruited Chiyo Kogawa as the school's new Flying Instructor and Quidditch referee after learning about a bad experience she had had during a try-out for the Toyohashi Tengu. Matilda had also befriended Mudiwa Onai, a gifted Seer and educator at Uagadou, with whom she was friendly enough that when she learned of the unexpected death of the latter's husband, she offered words of consolation and successfully persuaded Professor Black to let her invite Mudiwa to teach at Hogwarts instead.
In 1890, a new student was to be enrolled at the school to start as a fifth-year, and Matilda wrote them a unique acceptance letter informing them of their unusual situation and the preparation required. Around the time the letter was dispatched to the student, a strange magical disturbance took place at the school that greatly concerned the student body. Professor Weasley joined Professor Hecat in Classroom 3C to address the fourth-year students, where she admitted that the staff had no knowledge of what had caused the disturbance to happen. To help the future student catch up with their classmates, Matilda discussed with Professor Black and officers from the Department of Magical Education, who lent the school a copy of the Wizard's Field Guide to give to the student. She additionally organised for them to receive extracurricular assignments from their professors.
Matilda placing the Sorting Hat onto the new fifth-year student's head
Matilda met the student in person on 1 September, the first day of the school year. The student arrived late at the Sorting Ceremony held in the evening, and Matilda placed the Sorting Hat onto the student's head. After they were sorted, Matilda introduced herself to them and guided them to their common room. The next day, Matilda gave the Wizard's Field Guide to the student and showed them how to make use of it. They travelled to the Central Hall via Floo Flames, where Matilda informed the student of their schedule of the day that included two classes and a trip to Hogsmeade to replenish their supplies. Professor Eleazar Fig then ran into Matilda and the student, and they talked briefly about the dragon attack Fig and the student had experienced.
She asked the student to see her in her classroom after they completed the classes. When they arrived, she was talking to Deek about letting the student use the Room of Requirement. After Deek left, she turned to the student and let them know that Professor Ronen was ready to give them their first assignment. She also explained what the student should need from Hogsmeade, and asked them who they would like to go with to the village after completing the assignment. They chose between Sebastian Sallow and Natsai Onai, the two choices Matilda gave them, and she sent the desired student an owl to give them the task.
When it was time for the new fifth-year student to learn about the Room of Requirement, Matilda sent them an owl asking them to meet her in the seventh-floor corridor. However, she was dealing with Professor Black when the student went there, and when she arrived, she saw that the student had already discovered the entrance to the room by themself. They then went in, and Matilda found that the room presented itself to the student as the Room of Hidden Things, in which she finally spotted her old school bag. When a pile of chairs blocked their way forward, Matilda taught the Vanishing Spell to the student, and noted the moonstones the spell produced. After they found Deek, he asked the student to imagine the room as the way they liked it, which transformed it into a commodious space free to customise. Matilda then taught the student Conjuration spells, which required spellcrafts as recipes and used moonstones to conjure various kinds of workstations and decorations.
Matilda was kept mainly in the dark about the quest pursued by the student and their mentor Professor Fig as they worked to combat the rise of Ranrok's goblin rebellion and the Rookwood Gang. However, she was told the full story by the end of the school year, by which point Ranrok was making significant gains to capture the final repository beneath Hogwarts Castle. Matilda and the other professors rushed to defend Hogwarts in an ensuing battle within the Keepers' Caverns, in which the defenders were victorious, after the new student subdued and killed Ranrok.
Matilda and the other professors arrive at the battle beneath the school
The battle, however, saw the death of Fig, to whom Matilda led a heartwarming eulogy at his memorial ceremony soon after. Matilda also checked up on the new student and their progress. When the new student completed their Ordinary Wizarding Level examinations, Matilda led a speech at the End-of-Term Feast that comemmorated the student's triumphant achievements and their defence of Hogwarts.
Matilda is a feminine name deriving from the Old High German words "maht" (meaning might and strength) and "hild" (meaning battle). The name itself, thus, means "Mighty in battle".[citation needed]
In this game, the player creates their own character and takes on the role of a Hogwarts student. The character experiences seven years and takes part in classes as well as extra activities such as the Duelling Club. The game is still under development, as some chapters of Year 7 and Quidditch Season 4 are still not released.
Several actors voiced characters that they had played in the Harry Potter films before, including Warwick Davis, Michael Gambon, Maggie Smith, Gemma Jones, Zoë Wanamaker, and Sally Mortemore.
The player creates a character and follows the story of a student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and throughout the game will have to make certain choices that determine the path their character will be placed on, including the kind of relationships they build with other characters. Along with the story told through each chapter, they have the opportunity to achieve rewards by learning spells and potions.
The story follows the character for their seven years of education at Hogwarts from 1984 to 1991. In that time, the game will feature characters known from the books during their student years, including Bill Weasley, Charlie Weasley, and Nymphadora Tonks. The game also features teachers who were working at Hogwarts during that time including the characters of Rubeus Hagrid, Severus Snape, Minerva McGonagall, Albus Dumbledore, Filius Flitwick, and Rolanda Hooch. During the timespan, an infant Harry Potter was only just spared his life. Cedric Diggory was mentioned by his father, that he would be joining Hogwarts as a first-year student by the time the player reaches year 6.
The player will receive choices to make throughout the game. The answers they give from a maximum of three possible answers can determine which wand they receive, how strong their friendship with another character will be or how to deal with a situation that could have an impact on them later in the story. They have the choice of rewards that help contribute to the  Courage,  Empathy and  Knowledge level of the player. The rewards can be earned in classes or by completing pieces of the story. Certain choices may only be available if the player's Courage, Empathy or Knowledge level are high enough.
Levelling up will have all energy restored. By tapping on the character's face on the upper left, the current level and level progress bar will be visible underneath the character's name. When the bar is full the player levels up.
The player completes each chapter for both the classes or the story by using  energy to complete tasks. The initial full limit of the player's energy is 24, though it can be broadened throughout the game. When the player uses one energy it will take four minutes for the energy to be added back to the game. The number of energy one general task will take varies between 1 and 5, in special cases, when the outline is red instead of blue, it can take up to 13.
Throughout the game, there are hidden opportunities to gain energy by clicking on a certain character or item. They are known to include:
The player cannot go over the energy limit except in a few instances (buying energy with diamonds, levelling up friendships, duelling club, getting energy from pets). Thus, tapping the above locations with a full energy bar will not help the player get more energy.
Sometimes when the player runs out of energy in the middle of a task, the option of watching a 30-second advertisement to get 3 bolts of energy would be presented. One must keep pressing until seeing the "Out of Energy" message in order to see this option.
The game offers a reward or purchase of coins and diamonds which can be used to buy in-app purchases including more energy or even clothes, hairstyles and accessories for the character. The coins also need to be used to complete a certain part of the chapter including 100 coins to build a relationship with another character or learning to duel.
The House Cup in Harry Potter Hogwarts Mystery
The player will win or lose House points throughout the game which could depend on their choices. Their ranking will be placed on the Leaderboard for how many points they have earned overall for the House. They will be placed in a list of randomised students and their choices could have an impact on the House placement in the rankings overall. The winner of the House Cup at the end of the year will be rewarded with 50 gems.
The game-playing takes place in two sections: the story and the classes aspect, with the addition of side quests. The player will not need in each chapter to complete a class or a side quest and then move on to the story. They can complete in the order and the pace they decide. However, the game will not allow the player to move on to the next chapter or part of the chapter unless the player completes both the story and class.
To complete a class, the player earns stars within a time limit choice of either 1hr, 3hrs or 8hrs which affect the number of stars they can earn and therefore the rewards. If reaching the maximum star before the class hour is up, the player can leave class early. In each class, they will have to trace spells or rotate potions in a similar way to an old  Pottermore feature. The player could be asked a question about the subject during the class, and providing the right answer will reward the player with their choice of energy, points, coins or diamonds. Everyone will receive the same questions but the order in which they are asked throughout each chapter will be randomised. For example, one player could answer the same question earlier in the game than another player who will receive another question instead of at that point.
When encountering a duel, the game offers three choices: Sneaky, Defensive, and Aggressive. Sneaky defeats Defensive, Aggressive defeats Sneaky and Defensive defeats Aggressive. If losing, the player may spend a certain number of coins awarded in the game, and try again.
The occasional Duelling Club events may grant different prizes for every win; the Duelling Room is located in Dungeons; when opened, the player gets 3  tickets for every few hours. For every duel won, the player would sometimes earn +4 energy or be rewarded with coins.
Some spells, potions, and other lessons cannot be learned by attending classes, and must be taught via side quests or achieving a certain number of wins in Duelling Club. For example: Leek jinx is a gifted 'Sneaky' Duelling move by defeating 20 duelists in a day while the club was still an exclusive club.
In the App update released on 30 May, 2018, players now are able to build friendships outside of the main story arc. This new feature disabled the old "Explore" function those three locations used to have, in which the player could enter, but only to look around as there was no interactive setup. The "Explore" function was made available again with an update in mid 2020.
The amount of experience gained peer interaction increases every time the player starts a new year. However, the required number of points is also higher for friends who are unlocked at later points in the game.
Some characters are unavailable in certain activities. Fred Weasley and George Weasley, as well as Cedric Diggory and Beatrice Haywood cannot be interacted with in the Three Broomsticks due to being too young to go to Hogsmeade. Murphy McNully cannot play Gobstones. After completing Year 5, Bill Weasley is not available for friendship interactions at all (due to his graduation), but he later becomes available again for Butterbeer. Rowan Khanna is no longer available after their death in Year 6. Dobby is only available for a meal in the Great Hall. Rubeus Hagrid is not available for these interactions at all, and friendship with him is built by completing side quests involving magical creatures.
Sometimes, events make certain friends temporarily unavailable, for example Tulip Karasu at the beginning of Year 4, as she is first missing and then sent to the Hospital Wing.
Tapping the character icons of friends on the bottom right of the screen, shows friendship levels. After a certain level, the reward for levelling up friendship is energy. The higher the next friendship level, the higher the energy reward (+5, +10, +15, etc.) until reaching max friendship level. Reaching the maximum friendship level (10) gives a special reward.
Romance in the game is hinted in details of the main plot as well as several achievements in quests. In the quests, the player is given a chance to escort one of their character's friends to a school event as a date. All potential dates are available to player characters of either gender, allowing for both heterosexual and homosexual relationships.
The achievement quests include the Celestial Ball, First Date, Valentine's Day, Festival Fun, Valentine's Day Ball and An Enchanted Kiss.
The fully implemented romance system was subsequently added in an update released on 16 February, 2021, and is similar to the previous friendship system. In the romance system, the player character goes on a date with a chosen character during which they participate in mini games related to that person (eg, picking flowers for their date with a sorting mini game). Successful completion of the games and the correct answers to their date's questions will increase both that character's friendship metre and the new romance metre.
Once the romance meter is full, it will increase the romance level with that character, unlocking new locations, and games, for their dates.
In 2022 quests were introduced which can be accessed when the player reaches romance level 7 in which the date asks Jacob's sibling to become exclusive with them officially becoming their boyfriend or girlfriend. If the player accepts, they can only date this character from this point on unless they split up with the date. A portrait of the date appears in the dormitory and a daily gift of six energy points arrives by owl there. If the player declines the offer to become exclusive, their romance level with the date is lowered back to level 6. Even if the player declines this offer, they will still get that date's exclusive wardrobe item. This quest can be repeated with another date option.  If the player splits with the date after becoming exclusive, their romance level will be lowered back to level 1.
In the update released on 26 June, 2018, players now have the option to purchase pets. Players can purchase various types of pets, as listed below. After purchasing the base skin, the player can purchase additional skins for pets for coins, gems or brown notebooks. The player can keep a pet with them at all times, with additional pets being kept in the player's dormitory. Tapping and awakening sleeping pets can give players energy. In an update on the 28 September, 2018, it became possible to purchase magical pets, a crup and a streeler. Both of these are available to purchase with notebooks, a new currency available through completing classes and events. More magical pets have been added since, along with two Hallowe'en pets, which were originally event-exclusive but are now available for notebooks.
Availability:
Feed and Bond with a creature to increase your Magizoologist Level. Increase your Magizoologist Level to unlock new and exciting creatures.
Icon of Magizoologist Level
Year One of the game contains 10 chapters (11 for early players). The player gets to select their Hogwarts Houses (Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, or Slytherin) and participate in Charms, Potions, and Flying classes, while meeting friends (Rowan Khanna, Ben Copper, and Penny Haywood) and archenemy (Merula Snyde), and experiences playing Gobstones and duelling.
As the player tries to find out what happened to their older brother, Jacob, the existence of the Cursed Vaults is revealed, with Ice Knights and the Vanished Stairs decided to be researched upon. At the end of the school year, Hogwarts Headmaster Albus Dumbledore promises to discuss the Cursed Vaults and Jacob another time.
Year Two of the game contains 11 chapters. Aside from the three previous classes, the player gets to participate in Transfiguration in addition. Ben Copper went missing at the beginning of the school year, later found to be trapped with cursed ice and rescued by Professors Minerva McGonagall and Severus Snape. Meanwhile, the player, with the help of Rowan Khanna, continues to search for clues about the Vanished Stairs and the Cursed Vaults, sneaking into a common room from another House. They successfully locate the Vault of Ice, but results in Rowan being injured; the player is subsequently introduced to Bill Weasley for further help.
After being trained, the player and two friends venture into the Vault of Ice where they find a notebook and broken wand and a voice tells the player to never let "her" find the other ones. Near the end of the term, Dumbledore tells the player that they have something important to talk about at the end of next year.
Year Three of the game contains 11 chapters. Aside from the four previous classes, the player gets to participate in Herbology in addition. The player experiences the Hogsmeade weekend trips, during the first of which, is officially introduced to fellow year mate Andre Egwu. The player also becomes closer friends with Nymphadora Tonks, Tulip Karasu, and eventually Barnaby Lee; the latter two formerly being close friends of Merula Snyde.
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry suffers from several Boggart attacks not long after the start of term, which is concluded to be caused by another Cursed Vault. The player, with the help of friends, locates and ventures into the Vault of Fear. With the use of Jacob's wand found in the last vault, they find a map of the Forbidden Forest and an arrow.
By the end of term, Dumbledore tells the player he has been looking for the world's finest Curse-Breaker, Patricia Rakepick and that he invited her to join them next school year. He also warns the player to not break any more rules.
Year Four of the game contains 17 chapters. Aside from the five previous classes, the player gets to participate in Care of Magical Creatures in addition, where they catch up and spend more time with Charlie Weasley.
At the start of term, Professor Albus Dumbledore introduces the students to Curse-Breaker Patricia Rakepick, who tells the students not to go look for the Cursed Vaults. Hogwarts students become largely affected by the Sleepwalking curse, with most students heading towards the Forbidden Forest, which is concluded to be a likely location for another vault. The broken arrow found in the previous vault is believed to have belonged to Centaurs; upon studying and asking around, the player befriended Centaur Torvus, who formerly owned the arrow.
As the player tries to locate the vault, Rakepick occasionally lends her Niffler, Sickleworth, to help out. The Forest Vault is found, the player hears the mysterious voice (believed to be Jacob's) telling the player that they're "nearly there", but that all vaults but the last one are false, meant to be distractions and traps. The voice reveals they are trapped within the next vault, and that only the player can free them, and that then they can find the final vault together, as "they" cannot be allowed to find it first. Using Torvus' arrow, a portrait of a dragon and a small sweater are revealed.
Due to a history of rule-breaking, the player is set to serve detention under Pitts the House-elf in the kitchens, beginning on the first day of their Fifth year, until the player has "learned their lesson". The player also learns that Rakepick will depart from the role of a curse-breaking consultant, and step in as the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor for the next school year.
Year Five of the game contains 34 chapters. Aside from the six previous classes, the player gets to participate in Defence Against the Dark Arts and History of Magic in addition.
Year Six of the game contains 46 chapters. Aside from the eight previous classes, the player gets to participate in Divination and Astronomy in addition.
Quidditch tasks were added on 4 September 2019. After Year 2 Chapter 6, players can tryout for their House Quidditch team to begin ther journey to Quidditch Cup victory. Meet new Quidditch teammates and friends Skye, Orion, and Murphy, and unlock the new Quidditch gameplay mode!
In addition, the following spells were "learned" as rewards in duelling events upon completion, and all listed under Year 1, which became the only completed Year that constantly had updates with spells to learn solely for duelling and without any story arc attached to those said additional spells.
In addition to these students, Rubeus Hagrid (a staff member) is also on the player's friends list, but cannot be interacted with in the three friendship locations. Friendship with him is established and built with side quests involving the Magical Creatures Reserve (see "Hagrid" section in "Side Quests" for more information). Dobby is also in the friends list, being unlocked after completing the "Meet the Malfoys" side quest. Friendship with him can only be increased with the meal interaction and the level 10 reward with him is mismatched clothing.
A *next to a chapter means the friendship was added to that chapter retroactively. George was originally unlocked by the completion of Year 6 Chapter 14.
The following characters appear on Chocolate Frog Cards. This excludes characters who also appear in person or portraits.
The following characters never appear in the game and are not Hogwarts students or staff members during the events of the game. They were mentioned in a trivia hint, were a selectable option in a trivia answer or mentioned by other characters.
This student (b. c. 1973) was a witch or wizard who attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry between 1984 and 1991. Their brother Jacob's expulsion from Hogwarts for endangering fellow students in his quest to find the Cursed Vaults had an impact on his younger sibling's first year at Hogwarts when many other students whispered about them for their elder sibling's breaking of school rules which had disgraced their shared schoolhouse. The incident was well-covered in the Daily Prophet, as was Jacob running away from home, which had a profound effect on the younger sibling.
Throughout their first six years at Hogwarts, they successfully broke into every one of the five Cursed Vaults, showing immense creativity, bravery, intelligence, dedication and resourcefulness. They maintained friendships with lots of schoolmates and went through exciting adventures together, rescuing Jacob from the Buried Vault and breaking the ancient statue curse in the Sunken Vault. In their seventh year, they participated in internship programmes hosted by the Ministry of Magic and St Mungo's Hospital while continuing to fight against the dark organisation R with their friends.
They were born in 1972 or 1973 to Peregrine and his wife. They had one older brother, Jacob.
They apparently lived in close proximity to Muggle dwellings, but they showed little knowledge of Muggle life as an adolescent and must have had limited interaction with their neighbours.
When they were younger, they were close with their father and would beg him to take them on one of his adventures. At one point, their father set up a pretend expedition for them and Jacob, and gave them a torn piece of the map as their only clue. They found the treasure and beat Jacob to it, which made them smile. They used to love watching their father dance with their mother in the kitchen. At one point, they scraped their knee and made their father carry them a whole mile home. Before their father would leave for a trip, they would stay up late reading books. Whenever their father came home, they would run at him so fast, they would knock him over.
When they were five or six years old, they and Jacob pretended to duel with Liquorice Wands. At one point, Jacob convinced his sibling to steal Sickles from their mother's coat pockets.[citation needed]
During their childhood, their parents worked together to teach Jacob and his sibling that they could not go around flaunting their magic. In particular, their mother was strict about the use of magic outside of school, refusing both of her children to ride a broomstick before they began attending school.[citation needed]
They performed wandless magic when they were young, shattering one of their mother's tea sets when they sneezed. Their mother thought Jacob had done it until they repeated the feat with a vase a few weeks later when Jacob was at school. On another occasion, they laughed a flower back to life which their mother was pretty pleased with.
At one point, they set the family Puffskein loose in the family kitchen. They blamed Jacob for a couple accidental magic mishaps growing up.
Jacob began attending Hogwarts during their childhood. Tragedy struck the family when they received an owl from Professor Albus Dumbledore, informing them that Jacob had been expelled for endangering his fellow students in his attempt to prove that the fabled Cursed Vaults really existed.[citation needed]
Shortly after being sent home, Jacob ran away and went missing; many believed that he went on to serve Lord Voldemort, whereas other rumours said he had returned to Hogwarts after his expulsion to resume his search. His younger sibling would, years later, reject the former possibility. When his sibling and mother heard he went missing, they were upset over the news and cried.[citation needed]
One day before the 1984–1985 school year, while sitting on a bench reading a book, Jacob's sibling received their Hogwarts acceptance letter from an owl.
Sometime after, they travelled to Diagon Alley to buy school supplies, and met and befriended future fellow student and housemate Rowan Khanna. Rowan suggested to start at Flourish and Blotts, so Jacob's sibling went to the store to purchase their books. While picking up The Standard Book of Spells, they excitedly remarked how they looked forward to learning all the Charms; upon picking up Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, they said they were familiar with it and thought it to be brilliant.
They went back to Rowan's side with the intention of asking what to do next. Rowan said they wanted to look smarter as a student who anticipated becoming the Head Boy or Girl, and Jacob's sibling gave them suggestion for a piece of clothes they could wear. Rowan accepted the suggestion and went off to buy it, while Jacob's sibling travelled to Ollivanders Wand Shop to purchase their first wand.
Upon entering, they were greeted by Garrick Ollivander and immediately offered a wand to try out, but failed to gain its allegiance. Ollivander recalled their brother Jacob going through the same thing. Jacob's sibling was surprised that he was acquainted with their brother, and they talked about what they knew of him. Ollivander expressed both concern and curiosity about what sort of effect Jacob's choices must have had on his sibling, but still looked forward to seeing what kind of life they would lead. He offered them another wand, which chose Jacob's sibling as its master.
Returning to meet Rowan, Jacob's sibling saw that they already had their new piece of clothes on. Rowan also recognised the wood of Jacob's sibling's wand, and revealed they came from a family that ran a tree farm, which, together with the fact that they didn't have friends, made them indoorsy. Jacob's sibling offered to be their friend, which surprised Rowan since they were often considered as weird, but Jacob's sibling said they would be too because of the news of their brother having been expelled from Hogwarts. When they finished talking, Jacob's sibling and Rowan promised to see each other again on the Hogwarts Express.
First-years being sorted in 1984
On 1 September 1984, Jacob's sibling boarded the Hogwarts Express and travelled to Hogwarts Castle. Upon arrival, they were greeted at the Great Hall by the rest of the students and the staff. Professor Minerva McGonagall proceeded to provide them with a short explanation of the four Hogwarts Houses, voicing her hope that all of the newcomers would make fine additions to the ranks of great witches and wizards that each House had produced in the past. When Jacob's sibling was called to be sorted, the Sorting Hat remarked that "[it hadn't] seen one like this in a long time", and took their choice of House into account — which was the same as their brother Jacob's. Later, they found that Rowan had been sorted into the same House as them.
When the sorting was done and all first-years had found places to sit among their new housemates, Jacob's sibling listened to Headmaster Albus Dumbledore giving a brief speech of welcomes and educating the new arrivals on the rules of the House Cup and on what a great honour it would be to win it. At the end of the Start-of-Term Feast, Jacob's sibling's Head of House moved to stand beside the Headmaster, announcing to the students of their house that it was time for them to move to their common room.
Once there, Jacob's sibling reunited with Rowan, and the two briefly discussed their shared excitement over finally attending school and their new House. However, they were confronted by a third-year student, who believed Jacob ruined the reputation of their House. After the student left, Jacob's sibling and Rowan talked about their timetables, and saw that they would be attending Charms class first thing next morning.
As Charms was one of the subjects Jacob's sibling had most looked forward to, when arriving at the Charms Classroom, they courteously greeted the Charms Master, Filius Flitwick. Recognising the individual as Jacob's sibling, Filius Flitwick answered in kind words, claiming that he was certain the student would do just fine, as their older brother had been one of his most skilled students at Hogwarts prior to his expulsion. Even so, he subtly warned them against trouble-making, adding that Jacob had been one of his most rebellious students as well.
For the student's first class, they studied the Wand-Lighting Charm. When they successfully cast the charm at the end of the class, Filtwick recognised that it was the best execution of the charm he had seen from a first-year in quite some time, and offered ten House points to Jacob's sibling's House.
Later on, Jacob's sibling encountered Merula Snyde, an imperious and cruel Slytherin student, who tried to bully Rowan into admitting her as the most powerful witch at Hogwarts. Jacob's sibling intervened on Rowan's behalf, and Merula recognised them from their first name and introduced herself, instigating an argument between the students. Before it went too far, however, Professor Severus Snape ordered them to get into the Potions Classroom for the subsequent class.
The animosity formed between Merula and Jacob's sibling grew in that lesson. After Jacob's sibling seemed to have brewed the Cure for Boils potion correctly, Snape began to realise they might not be totally incompetent, but it soon appeared that Merula had put Bulbadox powder in the cauldron, causing it to explode and resulting in them losing ten points for their House due to their presumed clumsiness.
Not long after the incident, Jacob's sibling was introduced to Ben Copper and the House Prefect. The Prefect gave Jacob's sibling a note from Professor Snape stating he would consider restoring the points if they fetched some Pickled Slugs from a storage room. Jacob's sibling found the room following instructions on the note, but the room turned out to be filled with Devil's Snare, which quickly tied Jacob's sibling up. Merula appeared outside the room and revealed she had forged the note. Fortunately, Rubeus Hagrid arrived in time and saved them.
Jacob's sibling then attended their first Flying class. They talked briefly with Ben, who said he had been dreading the class all summer, and learnt to summon their broom. After the lesson, they played Gobstones with Rowan. Merula approached them and said mean things about their brother and the possibility of them working for the Dark Lord. They responded in the way they preferred, and soon Merula challenged them to a duel. They hadn't learnt any useful spells for duelling yet, but Merula hit them with a Knockback Jinx nonetheless, making them fall to the ground.
Because of this incident, Jacob's sibling asked their Prefect to teach them how to duel, to which their Prefect agreed. They told them there was a secret duelling book in the Artefact Room, so they went there to retrieve it with Rowan, but saw some visions in their head and heard a mysterious voice saying a kind of ice was here and a vault would open. Nevertheless, they acquired the book. They learned the Disarming Charm from Professor Flitwick and another spell with Rowan.
Jacob's sibling arrived at the courtyard and saw Merula scolding Ben in front of the public, so they started a duel with her. When the duel reached an end, Professors Snape and Flitwick arrived. Snape instructed both Merula and Jacob's sibling to arrive in the West Tower to receive their punishment.
On their way, they encountered Penny Haywood, the most popular girl in their year. She thanked them for having the courage to stand up to Merula, the school bully, and offered them her help in whatever they needed, which Jacob's sibling appreciated. Once they met Snape, Jacob's sibling lost house points for their house, while Merula did not. Before Snape could dispense punishment, however, he was interrupted by the school caretaker, Argus Filch, who required him and so Snape was forced to depart from the two students although he unknowingly was followed by Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde who subsequently overheard Snape and Filch talking about the mysterious Cursed Vaults, resulting in Jacob's sibling deciding to try to find them. They told Rowan Khanna about it and they went back to the corridor where the conversation had taken place, only to find a door which was locked. Mrs Norris showed up and ran away after seeing the two. Afraid that Mrs Norris might alert Filch, they left the corridor.
Fenrir Greyback and his fellow werewolves at Hogwarts, much to the horror of Jacob's sibling
On Hallowe'en, Fenrir Greyback and his army attacked Hogwarts. Chiara Lobosca, a werewolf student (in human form at the time), spotted Greyback and two werewolves emerging from the Forbidden Forest and tried to attack them, but was easily defeated. Shortly afterwards, Greyback and his two werewolf companions encountered Jacob's sibling, who defiantly stood up to them and briefly held off one of the two werewolves with their spells. Before Greyback could better coordinate the assault on and hence overwhelm the young pupil, however, he caught the scent of Albus Dumbledore and made a hasty retreat, who arrived just too late to capture him. The headmaster briefly examined the injured student on the ground and instructed the other one to return to their dormitory while he attended to Chiara, explaining that he would contact the Ministry of Magic and ask them to send an expert from the Werewolf Capture Unit to help to stop Greyback.
The next full moon, Greyback and his army attacked Hogwarts again. This time, they encountered Jacob's sibling and Cecil Lee, whom the Ministry had sent on Dumbledore's behest. During the confrontation, Cecil tried to use the Homorphus Charm on Greyback's werewolf companions, but, as he was out of range, it failed. While Cecil was surrounded by the two other werewolves, Greyback transformed. He was attacked by Chiara in her werewolf form, but swiftly and brutally put her out of action by knocking her unconscious. After this, Jacob's sibling successfully held him at bay by some swift-spell-casting. Having fended off the two werewolves attacking him, who had retreated to Greyback's side, Cecil swiftly stepped forward and conjured ropes from the end of his wand to restrain the pack leader. Having captured the three werewolves, Cecil agreed not to capture Chiara due to her heroic actions.
Not long afterwards, Greyback had already managed to escape from the Werewolf Capture Unit, though Mr Lee was confident that enough members of his pack had been rounded up to force him to keep his head low for a while.
Jacob's sibling learned to brew a Sleeping Draught with Penny Haywood. They arrived at the locked door with Rowan and another friend (possibly Penny or Ben), and Rowan used the Sleeping Draught (mixed in milk) on Mrs Norris to get past the door. They unlocked the door, but Merula overpowered them and went in first. The door led to a room in which they discovered the cursed ice, with Merula trapped in it. The ice spread, blocked the door behind them, and trapped their friends too. Jacob's sibling saved them and their friend reopened the door. Before leaving, Rowan noticed some code written on the wall and remembered it. The code, later deciphered by Rowan, suggested there was an Ice Knight who stood guard past the Vanished Stairs.
Albus Dumbledore summoned Jacob's sibling to come see him, making them fearful they would be expelled for their actions. On the contrary, Dumbledore awarded them one hundred points for their courage and compassion. Jacob's sibling attended the End-of-Term Feast before departing from Hogwarts.
During the second year, Jacob's sibling played Chaser in their House's Quidditch team.
During the 1985–1986 school year, Ben Copper went missing shortly after the start of their second year, and Jacob's sibling tried to search the castle for him. While doing so, they found a note in the Artefact Room. With help from Rowan, the note was deciphered, revealing that it was signed by someone using the initial "R" and contained instructions to locate a black quill hidden in a common room different from their own, which would turn into a note with additional information when Untransfigured. These instructions were allegedly meant for Ben to follow, and the note was speculated to have a connection to his disappearance. Jacob's sibling was puzzled, but decided to do as the note said in hopes of finding Ben.
Jacob's sibling welcomed Erling the Great to Hogwarts before this year's Hallowe'en. Sir Nicholas, who was planning to throw a Deathday Party, shared his deathday with Erling, but Erling decided to throw his own party instead of joining Sir Nicholas'. Jacob's sibling then helped Sir Nicholas prepare for his Deathday Party by making and sending invitation Howlers and sabotage Erling's party by preserving the food that was intended to be spoiled. However, this act was discovered by Professor Sprout, so Sir Nicholas gave his own food to Erling. On Hallowe'en, the two parties were eventually combined due to neither of them being satisfying, and Jacob's sibling danced with Myrtle Warren there.
Jacob's sibling learned the Shrinking Charm and Engorgement Charm in order to enter the other house's common room by using them on themselves and sneaking in undetected when the common room was empty, during a game of Quidditch between Gryffindor and Slytherin. In preparation for this, Jacob's sibling questioned Flitwick about the ramifications of using such spells on living things, but Flitwick became suspicious and strictly forbade it.
In December 1985, Bill Weasley invited Jacob's sibling to The Burrow for Christmas. Jacob's sibling wanted to give the Weasley family presents, so they tried to amplify the Snowflake-making Spell to create a snowfall around The Burrow, but inadvertently caused a blizzard that blocked the Hogwarts Express. They then learned Meteolojinx Recanto from Professor Flitwick and stopped the blizzard.
Charlie arrived in Arthur's flying car and prepared to send Jacob's sibling and Bill to The Burrow, but the car stopped working due to a missing part. It later turned out to be Merula Snyde, who regretted her decision of spending Christmas alone, that had taken the part so as to keep them in Hogwarts. She gave the part back to Charlie and was invited to The Burrow too. Jacob's sibling, Merula and the Weasley family put up a Christmas tree with a gnome they Stunned earlier, decorated The Burrow, and enjoyed a feast together.
Despite Flitwick's objection, Jacob's sibling sneaked into the common room as planned and got the black quill, but while exiting they were caught by the common room's corresponding Head of House, who asked them to explain their behaviour. Shortly after this, they Untransfigured the quill using Reparifarge, and it transformed into another note from R, instructing the reader to go to the farthest corridor at the end of the fifth floor, re-Transfigure the scroll into a black quill, and return it to the common room in which it had been hidden. They did so, and while inspecting the corridor, they found out the professors were already there. They also found Ben frozen in the cursed ice, but the professors saved him by casting the Fire-Making Spell, explaining that the cursed ice appeared to have developed resistance to the Knockback Jinx.
Jacob's sibling participated in the Teacher Appreciation Celebration. They interviewed Professor McGonagall, this year's Guest of Honour, while playing a game of Wizard's Chess with her. They also asked several other professors about her. They did a presentation about her on the final celebration feast.
Jacob's sibling and Rowan searched the corridor once more and found a wall to be suspicious. They decided to ask Professor McGonagall to teach them the Revealing Charm. After learning, they returned to the Icy Corridor and used it to find the Vanished Stairs. The stairs led to another mysterious corridor, which ended in a kind of mist. Jacob's sibling used the Knockback Jinx to clear the mist and revealed a hidden door covered with ice. They tried opening it but Rowan got hurt by some flying ice, so Jacob's sibling sent Rowan to the Hospital Wing. Rowan later recovered and suggested they get help from Bill Weasley.
Rumours spread around Hogwarts that a white werewolf had attacked a student. Jacob's sibling started investigating and asked Chiara Lobosca for help, who was reluctant at first but eventually agreed. She revealed to them that she was a werewolf and was afraid that the attacker might have been herself. They brewed a Memory Potion to help the victim, Pippa Macmillan, remember the attack more clearly, and it turned out to be a hippogriff rather than a werewolf. Jacob's sibling later found out that Chiara had been secretly giving Remus Lupin her Wolfsbane Potion, which led to her unrestrained transformation under the full moon. They duelled Chiara in her werewolf form, which drove her off into the Forbidden Forest to spend the rest of the night safely.
Bill Weasley taught Jacob's sibling the Fire-Making Spell and duelled them to help them practice their skills. He agreed to go find the Vault with them.
Penny Haywood's pen-friend Aurélie Dumont, who was a student of Beauxbatons Academy of Magic, visited Hogwarts and hoped to transfer to here. Jacob's sibling met her in the Great Hall and guided her through a tour around Hogwarts with Rowan Khanna. During the tour, Aurélie seemed to be focusing on finding something. Jacob's sibling learned the traditions of Beauxbatons with Aurélie and Madame Maxime, and eventually confronted Aurélie for her odd behaviour. Aurélie said she was looking for an alchemy artefact belonging to Nicolas Flamel that was believed to be hidden inside Hogwarts, and Jacob's sibling proposed to search for it together.
Penny joined them and they received an alchemy lesson from Professor Snape. They narrowed their target down to a chalice of Nicolas Flamel, but while searching they became suspicious that somebody might have been tailing them. They tricked them into revealing themselves and it turned out to be Merula Snyde. Later, Jacob's sibling and Aurélie got called in by Dumbledore, who told them even if the chalice did exist, it would not be in Hogwarts. They then played with the Abraxans before Aurélie departed.
Lucius Malfoy came to Hogwarts to inspect as a governor, during which he questioned Jacob's sibling and Ben Copper. Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde were asked to babysit his son Draco. During the inspection, Lucius' wand got stolen. Lucius planned to blame his house-elf Dobby for the theft as he knew where the wand had been kept, but Dobby claimed to Jacob's sibling that he did not do it. Later, they found out that it was Draco who had stolen the wand and they brought the wand back to Lucius.
Jacob's sibling and Bill went back to the entrance to the Vault of Ice, and succeeded in breaking down three layers of ice and faced the door, but before going further, Bill was trapped by some more ice. Jacob's sibling freed Bill and decided to tackle the door another day.
Bill later recovered in the Hospital Wing and decided to revisit the Vault with more friends. Jacob's sibling taught Penny and Rowan spells and Ben the Burn-Healing Paste.
Jacob's sibling and their friends preparing to enter the Vault of Ice
Jacob's sibling chose a friend (possibly Rowan, Penny or Ben) along with Bill to break into the Vault of Ice. They arrived at the door and repeatedly cast the Fire-Making Spell until it opened. An Ice Knight burst through, trapped the others in ice, and duelled Jacob's sibling. It was ultimately defeated, allowing Jacob's sibling to free their friends and enter the Vault. They found a broken wand and a notebook in the Vault.
Before taking them, Jacob's sibling heard a mysterious voice saying they had to find the other vaults and their (the voice's) room, and they couldn't let "her" get there first. They recognised the voice to be their brother Jacob's. The wand matched Jacob's wand's features, and the notebook contained nothing but scribbles and drawings.
After leaving the vault, Professor McGonagall required to see them outside of Professor Dumbledore's office and possibly took fifty house points from them. Dumbledore also spoke with them in his office, awarding them fifty house points and warning them never to go search for the Cursed Vaults again.
Before watching their first Quidditch friendly at Hogwarts, Jacob's sibling met Penny at the Training Grounds where they learned about the addition of Skye Parkin to their house team. They also learned that Skye was the daughter of Ethan Parkin, a Quidditch legend and member of the famous Parkin family who founded the Wigtown Wanderers. After this discussion had taken place, they and Penny completed their face paint before conversing with Face Paint Kid who tested them on their Quidditch knowledge. Once the Quidditch quiz was complete, they met with Rolanda Hooch who was surprised that this would be their first Quidditch match based on their dexterity on a broom in Flying class.[citation needed]
Jacob's sibling took Care of Magical Creatures and Divination as electives.
During their third year, they went on to play Beater while Bean, the original Beater on their team, was suspended from playing Quidditch. At the end of the school year, they also met with their Prefect who was about to graduate, and they taught Jacob's sibling to cast the Freezing Charm, to brew the Babbling Beverage and to tend Snargaluff.
In the beginning of their third year, at the end of a Herbology class, a werewolf manifested out of a pot in the Greenhouse, which scared Penny. Professor Sprout immediately recognised it as a Boggart and used the Boggart-Banishing Spell to turn it into a doll.
Jacob's sibling became an Animagus with the help of Penny Haywood and Talbott Winger, who was an unregistered Animagus already.
The Dragon Relay
When Jacob's sibling and Diego Caplan were having a duel in the Dragon Clubhouse, one of Diego's spells accidentally hit and broke a statue, revealing a chest inside. They opened it out of curiosity and sent a cursed Bludger flying around. Jacob's sibling then found it on the Training Grounds, and with help from Professor Flitwick, they managed to uncurse it. After some investigation, they thought the statue might have been donated by Gwenog Jones, a fresh graduate, and after Erika Rath contacted her, she agreed to return to Hogwarts. To raise money for a replacement statue, Jacob's sibling and their friends planned and participated in the Dragon Relay, but unfortunately the income was not enough. Gwenog then surprised everyone by restoring the broken statue, and revealing that she had already replaced the statue as another gift for the Dragon Club.
A visit to Hogsmeade was due since it was Jacob's sibling's third year, but they were initially not allowed to go because they have broken a lot of school rules. Their Head of House offered to let them go if they studied hard, which they did, eventually gaining permission. Arriving at Hogsmeade, Jacob's sibling went to the Three Broomsticks and asked Madam Rosmerta about Jacob. She gave them a black quill that belonged to Jacob. Using Reparifarge, Jacob's sibling transformed it back into a notebook and told Rosmerta what it was. But Filch, who overheard, seized the notebook and took it to his office, as ordered by Professor Snape. With the help of Nymphadora Tonks, Jacob's sibling tricked Filch and got the notebook back. To hide in his office again, they used the Shrinking Charm.
Jacob's sibling heard Professor Flitwick announce in the Great Hall that an audition for the Frog Choir would soon be held. They met Tulip Karasu, a Ravenclaw girl, and accepted to take her toad, Dennis, with them to the Frog Choir audition. Jacob's sibling and Dennis did a few things to bond, one of which was playing tricks on Madam Pince. They then met with the Weird Sisters and practised with them. They sang in front of Professor Snape to test their nerves. They went to the audition, and so did Merula Snyde. Merula duelled Jacob's sibling later, and she told them that she had been wanting the place in the choir because of her memories with her mom before she got arrested. Jacob's sibling won the audition, but it is unknown whether they gave the place to Merula.
Rowan Khanna deciphered the notebook, and they learn about a room where Jacob researched the Cursed Vaults. The room was closed with a double lock, and no spell worked against it. Jacob's sibling and another student read that the lock was the property of Tulip Karasu and asked her for help. After testing their character, Tulip told that she had one of the keys from that lock, and Merula Snyde had the other one.
Tulip and Jacob's sibling went to the courtyard to ask Merula for the key after driving away her cronies. She agreed after Jacob's sibling defeated her in a duel again, but she tells them she had already taken what she needed from there and warned them not to trust Tulip.
After getting the key, Tulip and Jacob's sibling went into the room and encountered a Boggart, which took the form of Voldemort. Remembering Professor Sprout had used a spell against a Boggart earlier in Herbology class, they went to the Library to find a book about it and to the Artefact Room to practise it on a Boggart there. The Boggart took the form of a purple-eyed and dishevelled Merula Snyde scolding Tulip for betraying her and Jacob's sibling transformed it to a ridiculously-dressed Merula using the spell. Subsequently, Tulip confessed that her greed and naivety had driven her to double-cross Merula, though Jacob's sibling urged her not to self-deprecate and gave her the benefit of the doubt when she swore she would never repeat the same mistake.
They went back to Jacob's room and defeated the Boggart there in a similar manner. After searching, they found a note indicating the entrance to the next Cursed Vault might be in the Library because there had been more Boggarts than anywhere when someone had tampered with the vault before.
Jacob's sibling, Andre and Jules in Zonko's with Bilton and the box of stolen pranks
On the Hogsmeade station platform, Jacob's sibling met Jules Egwu who came to visit his cousin Andre at Hogwarts, and started a tour by going to the Three Broomsticks Inn to have Butterbeer. However, Madam Rosmerta's Butterscotch had all been stolen, rendering making Butterbeer impossible. They also heard that a whole box of pranks from Zonko's Joke Shop and Penny's Mallowsweet were missing. When Andre and Jules found the box of pranks, Bilton noticed the absence of Sugar Quills, which made Jacob's sibling realise the thief was only after the sweets.
Jacob's sibling and Andre seeing Jules and the Demiguise off at Hogsmeade station
The students designed a trap which lured the thief out, but they couldn't see them, suggesting that they could make themself invisible. Combining these clues with the white hairs they had found at several crime scenes, Jacob's sibling, Liz and Hagrid reached the conclusion that the thief may have been a Demiguise. With help from Penny, the students set up another trap involving sweets coated with Sleeping Draught, which would make Demiguises visible. The trap was successful in enticing and revealing the thief, which turned out to indeed be a Demiguise. Jules decided to bring it home with her and Jacob's sibling saw her off in Hogsmeade.
Jacob's sibling went to the Library with some friends while Tulip continued to search Jacob's room. Jacob's sibling found a note that suggested the Restricted Section and decided to meet up with Tulip, but encountered Merula along the way. Tulip suggested Jacob's sibling team up with Barnaby Lee to deal with Merula. They met with Barnaby and through their persuasion, Barnaby realised he would like to work with them more than with Merula, his current affiliation. He challenged them to a duel and drank Butterbeer with them.
Penny Haywood told Jacob's sibling that her friend Talbott Winger had been spending time alone and missing classes, so Jacob's sibling went to check on him. He was about to tell Jacob's sibling what he had been up to when they discovered Merula Snyde had been spying on them invisibly, possibly under the Disillusionment Charm. They suspected Merula had heard the part about Talbott being an unregistered Animagus, so Jacob's sibling went to confront Merula, who didn't show an interest in reporting them but didn't promise to not do so either. They then studied Obliviate and may have used it on Merula so she didn't remember anymore.
Talbott revealed that his necklace was missing, whose feather had been extracted from his mother's Animagus form, a white swan. Jacob's sibling helped find the necklace. They made use of their advantage of transforming into animals and eventually decided it was in Filch's office or being played with by Mrs Norris. They saw Mrs Norris with the necklace, and Jacob's sibling transformed into their Animagus form to distract her while Talbott retrieved the necklace. Talbott then admitted it was the anniversary of their parents' murder, which, together with the missing necklace, were what had been letting him down of late. Talbott befriended Jacob's sibling after this experience.
Jacob's sibling invited a friend (possibly Rowan, Bill or Tonks) along with Tulip and Barnaby to enter the Vault of Fear. They went to the Library and the friend distracted Madam Pince so they could enter the Restricted Section. Before entering, Merula and Ismelda showed up. Jacob's sibling won a duel with Merula and Barnaby stayed back to hold them off while the rest went on. They searched the Restricted Section and found a way to enter the Vault. Barnaby rejoined the team and they went in.
Jacob's sibling and their friends in the Vault of Fear
The Vault became covered in mist and they found three Boggarts, all taking the form of Voldemort and kidnapping one of Jacob's sibling's friends. Jacob's sibling used Riddikulus to defeat them all, before a mysterious voice said it was too late and made their friends vanish. Jacob's sibling faced another Boggart Voldemort and won a duel. The mist cleared up and Jacob's sibling used Jacob's broken wand as an "ultimate sacrifice" to open the centre column of the Vault, inside which were a map of the Forbidden Forest and an arrow. They took them and left the Vault.
Jacob's sibling and their friends went to Three Broomsticks to drink Butterbeer and celebrate their success. Professor Dumbledore visited and called Jacob's sibling back to his office. He listened to Jacob's sibling's vault-breaking story and explained that during his absence, he went to invite a professional Curse-Breaker to Hogwarts. He later awarded Jacob's sibling one hundred points.
In their fourth year, Jacob's sibling played Keeper after the original Keeper graduated.
At the start of 1987–1988 school year, Professor Dumbledore introduced Madam Patricia Rakepick, a Curse-Breaker invited to the school, at the Start-of-Term Feast.
A sleepwalking epidemic spread throughout the school due to the opening of a third, unknown Cursed Vault, with victims apparently heading to the Forbidden Forest. One of the first victims was Tulip Karasu, who was sent to the Hospital Wing. She and Jacob's sibling talked about the incident and concluded that the third vault was likely located in the forest. Jacob's sibling attracted the attention of Madam Rakepick, and she taught them the Shield Charm in a private lesson on the Training Grounds.
Jacob's sibling met with Ben Copper in the Artefact Room. They found a black quill and untransfigured it to reveal another note from R saying something would be unleashed. Penny Haywood was later found in the Hospital Wing, having been attacked by a mysterious creature. Jacob's sibling and Tonks searched the Training Grounds, where Jacob's sibling was faced with a Dementor. Tonks arrived in time and cast the Patronus Charm to drive the Dementor away.
Jacob's sibling asked Tonks to teach them the Patronus Charm, and Tonks brought them to Hogsmeade to play a prank to enlighten their mood. However, they found another note from R there, saying the Dementors were unleashed but nothing more. While preparing for the study, Merula Snyde joined them. Although their first attempts were unsuccessful, they learned more from Professor McGonagall. They found the Dementor again on the Training Grounds, and Jacob's sibling successfully conjured a corporeal Patronus which chased the Dementor out of the school. Afterwards, Merula discovered another note from R saying congratulations.
Jacob's sibling decided to investigate Rakepick and asked the professors their opinions about her, which were mostly negative. Rakepick found out about that and invited Jacob's sibling to a private conversation, in which she told them to stop doing so, while continuing with her plan of using their assistance.
Jacob's sibling asked Professor Kettleburn what was the best way to go to the Forbidden Forest, and he agreed to answer that question if they studied enough about Bowtruckles. At some point, they received a forged letter supposedly signed by Kettleburn, which was actually a bait to lure them to the Courtyard, where a cloaked figure attacked them with the Full Body-Bind Curse and told them to stay away from the Cursed Vaults, the Forbidden Forest and Rakepick, further adding that "death is coming to Hogwarts" and might come to them as well if they disobeyed. The figure told that someone would eventually remove the curse, but it is unknown who did so.
Kettleburn, after satisfied with Jacob's sibling's study on Bowtruckles, answered their question. He said that by using a broom they could get to the forest mostly undetected. Meanwhile, Rakepick repeatedly invited Jacob's sibling, their friends, as well as their enemies Merula and Ismelda, to meet at the Training Grounds for a little competition to elect an assistant to her. They learned the Blasting Curse and duelled one another.
The Celestial Ball
Dumbledore announced in the Great Hall that a Celestial Ball would soon take place. Jacob's sibling helped Penny become the leader of the decorating committee and made decorations with friends. They convinced a couple of their friends, who had refused to go to the ball, to join them, while Andre Egwu helped design suits for them. He also designed three outfits for Jacob's sibling, who chose one from them shortly before the ball. They attended the ball with a date and had fun.
They then proceeded to try to get a broom, first by asking Madam Hooch to borrow one, which she refused due to the Black Lake incident and not trusting them, and later by attempting to steal one from Filch's office, where all brooms they found were broken. They incidentally found, however, another message transfigured into a black quill, which was a threat from R to Rakepick telling her to leave Hogwarts. As a last resort, they asked another student to borrow their broom; the student was reluctant at first, but Jacob's sibling managed to convince them to borrow the broom by talking to them at Three Broomsticks.
Jacob's sibling later went to the Forbidden Forest by broomstick together with Charlie Weasley and another friend. They landed at a grove, which had been pinpointed as the ideal entry point by them, but found no sign of a Cursed Vault. They returned to the castle, and Jacob's sibling searched for a missing drawing of their brother Jacob in his room, which turned out to be a closer examination of the grove. It revealed a structure behind the grove as a Centaur Camp.
Jacob's sibling and another friend went to the grove once more, where they met and duelled Torvus, who told them afterwards that Jacob had stolen one of his arrows that had belonged to his father. Jacob's sibling showed him the arrow they had found in the Vault of Fear, but its arrowhead was missing. Torvus said that his father had told him about the Forest Vault and wanted to help Jacob when he had tried to enter the Vault. Jacob had wanted to use Torvus' arrow to open its door and break the curse, but Torvus had refused, as it had been his family's heirloom, so Jacob had stolen it from the Camp, which had led to Torvus' exile. Jacob's sibling offered to find the arrowhead, and Torvus in exchange would read the planets to look into the future.
Jacob's sibling later met with Charlie in the Three Broomsticks Inn and found out that he knew Torvus too. They went back to Jacob's room to research the arrowhead, and found a drawing which depicted the arrowhead as having been carved from a single giant gemstone. Below it was a note that suggested Jacob had buried it to hide it from "both of them".
Jacob's sibling was caught writing a note to somebody they had a crush on during Potions class. Several friends of them helped them find some hiding spots from the rumours about them, and Bill Weasley told them some dating advices. Tonks and Charlie helped them select a date location, and Andre Egwu designed their outfit. They asked their date out in the Library and they agreed.
Andre met with Jacob's sibling in the Transfiguration Classroom and possibly did some makeup and grew some facial hair on them. They invited their date to a location in Hogsmeade, but couldn't think of much to talk about. Tonks and Charlie came to sit a few feets away, and Tonks later made some mess around them, so the owner closed the place and the date ended in a failure. They talked to Hagrid about it, who suggested them meet with their date again. They talked with each other to eliminate worries and stargazed together in the Courtyard.
Jacob's sibling decided to borrow Madam Rakepick's Niffler, Sickleworth, to help them dig for the head of Torvus' arrow. Rakepick later came searching too, but it turned out she only wanted a key back. They failed to find it inside Hogwarts Castle.
Continuing their search for the arrowhead, Jacob's sibling went to the Forest Grove with Charlie and another student. Sickleworth ran inside a hole and they followed his trace there, where they met a Red Cap and were driven out of the hole. They went back to Hogwarts Castle, met Tonks and learned about Red Caps together.
Jacob's sibling and Penny gathered ingredients and brewed some Beautification Potion together. Before they could fly into the Forbidden Forest, however, Professor Snape discovered them, broke their broom and told them to expect further letters.
Jacob's sibling later went to see Snape, and Snape told them he had only acted to look as if they had been at odds, and that Madam Rakepick had been watching them ever since she had arrived. He asked them to help him uncover her true motivations at Hogwarts, by fetching potion ingredients from strange places and watching if Rakepick would also be there.
Jacob's sibling went to the Great Hall and saw Rakepick talking to Filch about the key she just found. Filch told Rakepick he had received the key as a part of a mysterious package along with three Black Quills. They then went to the Three Broomsticks Inn, and saw Rakepick talking to Rosmerta about the notebook Jacob had left here and asking whether Jacob had also left a map of Hogwarts, which had been in Filch's office but was no longer there. They then went to the Hospital Wing, and saw Rakepick discussing the sleepwalking epidemic with Madam Pomfrey. Rakepick spotted them and revealed she knew they were spying for Snape.
Jacob's sibling returned to meet Snape, and Snape told them he believed Rakepick had a student as a co-conspirator. He expected Rakepick to know about his intentions, and said that Rakepick would be waiting for his response. He gave Jacob's sibling a bottle of Garrotting Gas because he believed Rakepick might try to kill them.
Jacob's sibling, Charlie and a friend returned to the Red Cap's Hole with their Beautification Potion and used it on the Red Cap. He was alarmed by his slightly more handsome look and climbed away, allowing Sickleworth to find the arrowhead. They then went to the Forest Grove, and Jacob's sibling cast the Levitation Charm on themselves to see higher, and found Torvus. They repaired his arrow and gave it back, but Torvus said he needed them to bring Hagrid to him.
At this time, a lot of magical creatures were at large around the castle, and Jacob's sibling helped Hagrid, Professor Kettleburn and Amos Diggory recapture them.
Jacob's sibling and their friends did some preparation for the Forest Vault, during which Jacob's sibling learned Arania Exumai from Madam Rakepick. They then went to invite Hagrid on their trip, but his hut was unfortunately filled with Bundimuns.
Jacob's sibling went to the courtyard to finalise their plan with their friends, but Charlie and Rowan were hit with a Full Body-Bind Curse, leaving Jacob's sibling to duel with the reappeared R's messenger. Then Madam Rakepick appeared and defeated the messenger. They lifted the messenger's disguise, only to find that it was Ben Copper, who didn't seem to remember what had happened.
Jacob's sibling later returned to Hagrid's Hut, told Hagrid what had happened and helped him clear the Bundimuns with the Scouring Charm, after which Hagrid agreed to go into the Forest with them.
Jacob's sibling, Charlie, Hagrid and a friend (possibly Penny, Bill or Rowan) entered the Forbidden Forest and met with Torvus. They entered the Spider's Lair and encountered an Acromantula immediately. Hagrid requested to take a look around, which the Acromantula agreed, but then he trapped Charlie, Hagrid and Torvus in webs. Their friend temporarily took care of the Acromantula while Jacob's sibling managed to save them using the Severing Charm. However, the Acromantula then recovered and duelled Jacob's sibling. In the end, Jacob's sibling used Arania Exumai on the Acromantula and won.
Jacob's sibling and their friends entering the Forest Vault
They found the door to the Forest Vault and entered. Jacob's sibling touched the centre column, but nothing happened, suggesting they should once again use their brother Jacob's wand. They then heard Jacob's voice again, telling them only the final Cursed Vault was real, he was trapped in the next Vault, and they shouldn't let "them" get their first. They used Torvus' arrow on the column and it opened, revealing a portrait of a dragon and a sweater.
On their way out of the Forest, Jacob's sibling and their friends met Dumbledore and Filch. Dumbledore told Jacob's sibling they continued to exhibit little respect for Hogwarts's rules and himself, and gave them detention in the kitchens under Pitts next year. They then went to the Three Broomsticks Inn to celebrate.
Jacob's sibling got called into Dumbledore's office, but instead saw Madam Rakepick arrive via Floo Powder, who congratulated them and said that she would guide them into their fifth year and change the rules to make their search for the Vaults easier, before revealing that she would be the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor next year.
Jacob's sibling got O.W.L.s in Potions, Charms, Transfiguration, Herbology, Defence Against the Dark Arts, History of Magic and Care of Magical Creatures. They most likely also got O.W.L.s in Divination and Astronomy, two subjects which they continued to take in their sixth year.
At the start of the 1988–1989 school year, their fifth year, Jacob's sibling met Penny's younger sister Beatrice, who gave them a hand-made Puffskein. They later went to the Library and did some studying with Bill, Charlie and Percy Weasley.
At night, Jacob's sibling and Bill were called by Professor Rakepick to the Training Grounds, and found out that they, along with Merula had been chosen as Rakepick's apprentice Curse-Breakers in their pursuit of the fourth Cursed Vault. She taught them how to cast the Incarcerous Spell and had Jacob's sibling demonstrate it on Merula much to her chagrin.
Jacob's sibling then went to meet Ben Copper in the Courtyard where they discussed Ben's attack in the last year. Before they could finish their conversation, both were confronted and attacked by another figure in a red cloak. The figure subdued both with a Full Body-Bind Curse before repeating their previous warning that death was coming to Hogwarts and telling them that they needed them alive and that before the school term ended, one of their friends would die.
Jacob's sibling was later invited to the Three Broomsticks Inn by Merula along with Bill. The three talked about how they should start co-operating. Soon, Penny came to inform that Beatrice was missing. The four decided to split into pairs. Jacob's sibling and one of the three searched the Red Cap's Hole (where they found a rat which appeared to be Scabbers) and Spider's Lair (where they fighted the Acromantula again), but could not find Beatrice.
Jacob's sibling returned to meet the rest in the Potions Classroom, where Penny was brewing a supposedly original potion which would temporarily gain her the power of Legilimency to look into her sister's mind. They helped her with the potion, but it didn't work.
Merula discovered Beatrice stuck in a portrait beside the Grand Staircase and returned to alert the rest. They went there and met Rakepick, who said that the only way to free her was to find the next Cursed Vault and break its curse, and that Beatrice might soon lose her connection to reality. Filch came later and called Jacob's sibling to start their detention.
Jacob's sibling went to the kitchens and started serving detention under Pitts's instructions. They met Jae Kim who was too serving detention for bringing contraband to Hogwarts and selling them. He offered Jacob's sibling an opportunity to receive Fizzing Whizzbees, a Probity Probe or a Revealer for free, among which Jacob's sibling chose one.
They then met with their friends (including Jae) in the Library and studied ways for getting Beatrice out of the portrait. They guessed it might have been an Extension Charm that trapped Beatrice in, and studied it with Professor Flitwick, who had a similar thought, but believed it could've been something more ancient and sinister. He then suggested Jacob's sibling talk to Nearly Headless Nick, who might know the origin of this curse.
Jacob's sibling and Sir Nicholas talked to the other portraits beside the Grand Staircase, and found out that Beatrice had approached the protraits after having heard strange sounds like crackling and the flapping of wings, had touched one and had been pulled inside immediately. The portrait of Merlin also said there had been a faceless interloper who had tampered with the portraits. Sir Nicholas suggested Jacob's sibling talk to the resident portrait painter, Badeea Ali.
While the portrait curse hadn't been broken, Sir Cadogan gave Jacob's sibling a series of knightly trials to help them do so and also prepare for future perils. The first trial took place on the "Land of Magical Creatures", which was really the paddock where they had Care of Magical Creatures classes, and involved cleaning up the mess left by creatures such as a Fire Crab, a Bowtruckle and a Unicorn. When they finished, Cadogan instructed them to look for a magical scroll in the Library. They got it from Madam Pince, who also advised them to go to the Charms Classroom, where they would later help Professor Flitwick move heavy items. Professor Snape also came along and asked Jacob's sibling to collect some Knotgrass for him. They did this with Andre, who made them realise the trials were essentially a professor's to-do list. They discussed this with Hagrid, who suggested they demand an answer from Cadogan.
Soon, Jacob's sibling gathered a few of their friends and learned from Cadogan there would be three more trials. They "dined in abundance" in the kitchens and challenged Ben to a duel. The final trial turned out to be a rematch with the Ice Knight, who Professor Rakepick had reanimated, so Jacob's sibling found Bill and practised the Fire-Making Spell just like they did in their second year. They arrived outside the Vault of Ice once more with Bill and the Ice Knight showed up, beginning their fight. When they were finished, Jacob's sibling returned to meet Cadogan and reviewed their deeds, before Cadogan deemed them worthy of knighthood and rewarded them a suit of knightly armour.
Jacob's sibling met Badeea, who had actually painted Beatrice stuck in the portrait. They talked about magical portraits, while Badeea suggested Jacob's sibling be innovative and try new things. They went back to detention with Jae, who revealed Badeea knew how to Apparate and also invented her own spells. They met Merula in the Three Broomsticks Inn and persuaded her to help save Beatrice. Merula suggested them search for the Marauder's Map.
Remembering Rakepick's conversation with Rosmerta last year, they planned to shock Filch to induce them to talk about the Map. Filch opened a gift box, saw a cake with Mrs Norris' face and became happy, allowing Jacob's sibling to find out that it was Filch's guess that Peeves had stolen the Map from his office.
Jacob's sibling and Jae went to the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom, and made Peeves appear. Peeves said a friend of his, who hated Jacob more than potions, didn't want him to tell them where the map was, then disappeared. Jacob's sibling followed the trace and talked to Professor Snape, who didn't tell them anything about the Map, but said Penny had lost her focus and her chance of passing her O.W.L.s.
Jacob's sibling went to comfort Penny, who wanted to brew a potion and needed the ingredients. They got a Unicorn horn from the Forest Grove, some Porcupine quills from the Transfiguration Classroom, some powdered Moonstone from Jae, and some Syrup of Hellebore from the Herbology Classroom. They used them to brew a batch of Draught of Peace, which successfully calmed Penny down.
Hagrid asked Jacob's sibling to meet him in his garden and announced his participation in the upcoming outdoor celebration of magic. They asked around in the Great Hall and learned about the activities of the festival and the role of festival ambassadors, for which there were already students competing. For the first lesson of the celebration, Professor McGonagall taught students the Gobstone to Skunk spell in the Courtyard, but the lesson went awry when Tulip tried to pet her skunk, which filled the space with unpleasant smells. Merula talked to Jacob's sibling about her interest in becoming an ambassador before Professor Snape's potions-reviewing class, which culminated in a quiz of potion ingredients given to the two. After class, Jacob's sibling discovered a love note under a gobstone. Professor Flitwick chose to have the Charms class be in Hagrid's Garden, where students would practise the Shrinking Charm on the pumpkins. Another love letter showed up in the Three Broomsticks Inn, where Jacob's sibling had conversations with both Penny and Merula, who were competing to be ambassadors. Throughout the celebration, they had also received implicit invitations to be one's date from several individuals.
Jacob's sibling flying on a Griffin
It became apparent to Jacob's sibling that they might be having more than one secret admirers. When they and Andre were discussing their festival outfit, Andre expressed interest in this situation and decided to investigate the case. The next lesson was jointly conducted by Madam Hooch and Professor Kettleburn, during which Jacob's sibling learned how to fly on a Griffin. Andre then discovered another secret admirer's note for them. They examined the evidences and Andre suggested there might have been a lot more than three admirers. Nevertheless, Jacob's sibling proceeded to finding Hagrid on the Quidditch pitch to help with festival preparations, but spotted Murphy instead in the commentary box, who thought dating and Quidditch were alike. Back in the Courtyard with Andre, where their friends were all present, Jacob's sibling finally decided to ask a friend on a date. They invited them to Hog's Head and expressed their interest to them, who affirmed that the feelings were mutual.
Festival dance
When Andre's outfits were ready, Jacob's sibling picked one from the two. They arrived at the main festival and found their date approaching them, also dressed stylishly. They checked out the activities at the festival, such as Puffskein-tossing and face-painting, which their date tried on them. Just then, Murphy announced the arrival of a special guest, Gilderoy Lockhart, who returned since his last visit on Valentine's Day and gave a speech all about himself, before asking the dancing area to be cleared for him to have a duelling exhibition. Naturally, the students didn't want to relinquish the opportunity to dance, but Jacob's sibling volunteered for a duel with Lockhart on the Training Grounds to get him quickly out of there. Lockhart turned out to be quite weak after all, but he insisted on another duel after the first one, which made them and their date worry about having the dance on time. They then thought of a brilliant idea and turned the gobstone they had picked up into a skunk, which sprayed Lockhart and caused him to depart. The students were then able to return to the festival, and Jacob's sibling enjoyed a dance with their date. Near the end, the two were announced to have been elected as festival ambassadors, and they took off around the pitch together on a broom, when Jacob's sibling received a kiss.
Penny invited Jacob's sibling to talk to the Fat Friar, who suggested they go ask Nearly Headless Nick. They met him along with Bill, Charlie and Percy Weasley (who brought Scabbers) in Jacob's room. Nick told them Jacob had indeed possessed the Map, but they instead found a letter from Jacob about him bringing the Map to Olivia Green, who had been in Ravenclaw. Jacob's sibling then met the Grey Lady with Tulip, Talbott and Andre, and found out from her that Jacob and Olivia had had another friend, Duncan Ashe, who had been in Slytherin. They spoke to the Bloody Baron with Merula, Ismelda, Barnaby and Liz, who revealed that Duncan was now a ghost and was the friend of Peeves.
Jacob's sibling, Bill and Charlie found Duncan in the Prefects' Bathroom, who was, as expected, not friendly towards Jacob's sibling. He accused Jacob of ruining his life and told Jacob's sibling to go find out what had happened themselves.
From Hagrid, Madam Hooch and Bilton Bilmes, Jacob's sibling learned that Duncan had borrowed a new broom after his had been destroyed, and that he had been a great mischief maker who would deconstruct things and put them back together. Jacob's sibling, Tulip and Merula went to Jacob's room and found a letter from R to Jacob, which suggested Jacob and his friends had been working for R and mentioned rats and Centaurs.
Jacob's sibling and Charlie then went to the Forest Grove to meet Torvus, who was surprised to know that Duncan was dead. Torvus told them that Jacob and Duncan had planned to enter the Forest Vault and Duncan had worked on an extra-powerful Erumpent Potion. Duncan had wanted them to stick together, but Jacob had wanted to split up, resulting in the potion exploding, which had killed Duncan. They went back to the Prefects' Bathroom and met Duncan, only to find that Jacob and Duncan hadn't wanted to work with R at all, but R had manipulated Duncan into brewing an extra-explosive Erumpent Potion. Duncan blamed Jacob because he had let himself get expelled because of R, and claimed that Jacob was now a member of R and a feared wizard in Knockturn Alley. Jacob's sibling asked about the Marauder's Map, which, according to Duncan, had been given away by Peeves. Duncan said Mundungus Fletcher could help them and tell more about Jacob.
On the Care of Magical Creatures grounds, Hagrid and Professor Kettleburn announced, to a group of selected students including Jacob's sibling, their plan of hosting an original All-Wizard Tournament, which would help them prepare for a potentially upcoming Triwizard Tournament. Jacob's sibling was further motivated to participate when Hagrid explained that the final Cursed Vaults could hold similar danger, and their friends were excited about it as well. They spent some time learning about the Triwizard Tournament and its cancellation in the Library, where Hagrid disclosed the first task would involve Nifflers.
The first task took place in the History of Magic Classroom, was worth 100 points and was about finding as much shiny objects as possible using Nifflers. Due to its simplicity, it didn't receive much positive feedback, but Hagrid and Kettleburn promised the second task would be more challenging, and after announcing the winner, who was Jacob's sibling, they explained that the hints to the second task were hidden inside the contestants' shiny objects. Jacob's sibling met Jae and Andre in the Transfiguration Classroom and Untransfigured a shiny object into a jar of unidentified matter. After some examination, Liz indicated the matter were Doxy eggs.
The second task took place on the Training Grounds, was worth 300 points and involved catching a Pixie on a broom, which had been cast the Hurling Hex. When Jacob's sibling was about to catch the Pixie, Merula bumped them, which led to Andre taking the lead and catching the Pixie, but not before a mass of Doxies escaped their cages and created chaos, injuring several students who were taken to the Hospital Wing imminently. Hagrid and Kettleburn were no longer confident that continuing the tournament was a good move, and they, Jacob's sibling and several others talked to Dumbledore, who didn't intend to cancel the tournament but was determined to oversee the third task, and said the clue to it would find them.
At night, Jacob's sibling met a couple of students gathered by Badeea, who couldn't sleep due to the tournament. Andre and Merula decided to practise spells, and Jacob's sibling and the others talked about the upcoming task, but no one really felt better. A Niffler left them a coin, which was Untransfigured into a Howler playing their friends' voices saying they were trapped by a Manticore in the Forbidden Forest. Arriving in the Forest Grove, they shot spells towards the Manticore but it didn't work due to its resistance to all charms, and Jacob's sibling saved Merula's life by pushing her out of its tail's reach. They collected their wits and formed a plan of blasting the tree branch on top of the Manticore and knocking it unconscious, which turned out to be successful. Hagrid, Kettleburn and Dumbledore then came out of the trees behind which they were monitoring the students, and congratulated them for finishing the final task.
They gathered in the Great Hall once more and listened to Dumbledore, who declared there had been a winner of the final task despite it being completed by collaborative efforts, and that the winner was Jacob's sibling for recognising the solution to be working together and convincing their competition of it. Another 500 points were awarded to them, who stepped up and accepted the All-Wizard Cup as the final victor of the tournament.
Jae suggested using Floo Network to go to Knockturn Alley to meet Mundungus Fletcher. Remembering Rakepick had used it last school year, they went to Defence Against the Dark Arts class, demonstrated defeating a Boggart, and asked Rakepick to teach them. Rakepick knew their true purpose, so she gathered all her apprentices to train their duelling techniques, gave Jacob's sibling a private lesson on instinctive reaction, and even sent them to the Forest Grove to face Kettleburn's lost Chimaera. Liz Tuttle appeared in time and comforted the Chimaera with red meat, saving both of them.
Jacob's sibling returned to speak to Rakepick, who believed it would be better if they were accompanied by someone else. They invited a friend and learned the Stunning Spell from Bill.
Professor Dumbledore called another special assembly in the Great Hall and announced the upcoming Valentine's Day Ball. It surprised and disappointed Jacob's sibling and fellow students when he said to have put Madam Pince in charge of it, who would see to the planning of the ball with "utmost seriousness". After growing some flowers in Herbology class using the Herbivicus Charm, Jacob's sibling got the idea of bringing them to Pince for approval, but Pince was concerned that they would remind one of what they didn't have on a holiday and thus make one feel more alone. Jacob's sibling tried to explain to her the students' vision of the ball, but Pince was insistent that there be no floral arrangements and sugary refreshments, and the only sounds she would like to hear that night were a lonely classical fortepiano. She also suggested Jacob's sibling take it up with the Headmaster if they had issues with her arrangements, which was exactly what they did, and they received some wise advice from Dumbledore.
They invited Penny to speak to Pince with them, but she wasn't willing to change her mind. They then witnessed a friendly interaction between Pince and Mr Filch, who they believed to be her own valentine. They talked to Merula about their idea of using Filch to indirectly convince Pince, and Merula used the Colour Change Charm to play a prank on Mrs Norris, which inevitably caught Filch's attention and he called Jacob's sibling to his office. There, they reversed the colour change and pretended that Pince wanted sophisticated refreshments, refined music and elegant flowers for the ball. They even arranged with Andre to design a makeover for him, which he wore to a meeting with Pince, Jacob's sibling and Talbott. At the end of the meeting, she was finally convinced to organise a fairy tale Valentine's Day Ball.
Jacob's sibling chat with Chiara and Jae about music and food for the ball respectively, and when Pince came down to the kitchens to look for Jacob's sibling, she tried Jae's fairy cakes and talked about her idea of putting up a mural in the hall. They then met with Badeea, who agreed to paint one with them, and she also let them choose the type of story they would be telling with it. They also went to the forest in the Magical Creatures Reserve with Barnaby and recruited their fairy friend and her own friends to provide light at the ball. Throughout this whole experience, every student Jacob's sibling had talked to had asked them, explicitly or implicitly, to be their date, and they had a hard time deciding who to choose. They talked to Tonks in the Courtyard where all their friends gathered, and Jacob's sibling finally decided to ask one of them to be their date, who heartily agreed. They also put on an outfit Andre designed for them.
The surprise scene Jacob's sibling's date set up for them
At the ball, Jacob's sibling and their date met Pince and Filch, who thanked Jacob's sibling for their help. They had their first dance on the dance floor following the rhythm of the music played by the enchanted instruments set up by Badeea. After the dance, Dumbledore congratulated them for their efforts leading to an excellent ball, and pointed them to Pince and Filch who were sharing a romantic moment together. He also reminded them to go the Library to meet their date, who had prepared a surprise scene for them and gave them a storybook symbolising the romance they had for each other.
Rakepick met them in Dumbledore's office and used the Floo Powder on the fireplace before they stepped in it and were transported to Diagon Alley, which was safer as a landing point.
They then went to Knockturn Alley and asked around about Fletcher. They found out from Jane Court that Fletcher had lost a duel recently and had been going to Ollivanders, so they went there, but didn't find Fletcher. He had been there though to ask about the wand of his opponent, whose approach and stance had been very unique. Ollivander had suggested Fletcher go to Madam Villanelle, a linguist, in Flourish and Blotts to learn more about the way his opponent had shouted incantations.
They visited Villanelle, and while waiting for her to finish her business, they found a book that had a strange invisible message about a "vault portrait". Villanelle later told them that though she hadn't recognised anything from Fletcher's recollection of his opponent's incantations, he had told her that the wizard had been in white robes and had a tattoo of a skeletal snake or dragon, making her suggest him go to Borgin and Burkes.
Before entering Borgin and Burkes, they encountered a witch, who demanded something from them. She cast the Slug-vomiting Charm on Jacob's sibling's friend, and Jacob's sibling duelled her, only to attract more witches and wizards. At this moment, Rakepick appeared and defeated them. She then told them she had tracked down Fletcher and he was waiting in the Three Broomsticks Inn.
Fletcher told them he had managed to get the Marauder's Map out of Hogwarts, but had been attacked and robbed by someone from behind. Before he would tell them more, he asked for some Venomous Tentacula Seeds, Acromantula Venom and Chimaera Eggs, which they got from the Herbology Classroom, Spider's Lair and Care of Magical Creatures grounds. Fletcher then recounted that the man who'd attacked him had transformed into something before running off and might have gotten the Map into Hogwarts by now, and suggested that this might have been the same person who had attacked Jacob's sibling at the start of the school year.
After Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Rakepick told Jacob's sibling there had been rumours of a portrait of a Cursed Vault hidden in Hogwarts. They met Badeea on the Grand Staircase and talked to other portraits but didn't get anything useful. Then they met their friends in the Library and didn't find anything either. They met Jae in the kitchens and talked to the house-elves, and from one of them, they learned that some Gryffindor students had asked an elf about the portrait years ago.
They went into the Gryffindor common room during a Quidditch match with Jae to look for the portrait, but were discovered by Percy, who was searching for Scabbers. Percy accused them of using magic outside of class (though it was only the Wand-Lighting Charm), and was about to report them to everyone he could think of, when Jacob's sibling proposed to find Scabbers with him. They asked Hagrid for borrowing Fang, which he agreed.
In the Great Hall, Professor Dumbledore recounted the performance of The Fountain of Fair Fortune at Hogwarts decades ago and the damage it did to the whole school, but said that Professor Flitwick had convinced him to put up another play. Flitwick introduced to the audience his original play, Equinox Enchanted, and an intimate scene in it in which the leads would express their love towards one another, which Jacob's sibling and their friends found to be a big undertaking. They talked to Flitwick himself, who further explained the plot details of the play and gave them advices on a successful audition. They helped each other prepare for it, and Jacob's sibling also learned some movement techniques from Diego, the Choreographer and Assistant Director. During the audition, Jacob's sibling's partner, Barnaby, forgot his line, and the two of them went completely off the script, but Flitwick was very impressed with their improvisational skills. After Jacob's sibling helped Badeea with her artworks for the play, Flitwick announced that they had been chosen as a lead, along with the exact student Jacob's sibling wanted to co-star with.
Before the first rehearsal, Flitwick brought up the superstition that saying the name of The Fountain of Fair Fortune during rehearsals would bring ill fortune, and while Jacob's sibling was doubtful about it, some of their friends, including Diego, was careful not to risk it. Later, Barnaby introduced to Jacob's sibling his pet Knarl, Knarl, who Flitwick believed to be suitable for their partner during a dance scene with a magical creature. They tried to teach him some stage directions, but didn't have much luck except for the "stay" instruction. Flitwick then decided to change the script to include a duelling scene and reviewed it with Jacob's sibling and Diego in the Duelling Club. Jacob's sibling also helped Andre and Talbott search for costume sketches.
During a conversation with Andre, Jacob's sibling became afraid of stage fright, so they asked Penny to brew some Calming Draught. They searched for ingredients in the Artefact Room, but were still missing a crocodile heart, which they had to ask Jae to obtain, and surprisingly, Jae had a lot of collectibles from crocodiles including their hearts, so they started brewing immediately. The potion, however, looked unusually purple, and when Jacob's sibling drank some, they felt their mouth burning, which Jae thought was because of too much peppermint oil he had added. Fortunately, Professor McGonagall restored them with a few waves of her wand, and in return, Jacob's sibling and Jae helped her tidy up her classroom.
Jacob's sibling performing Equinox Enchanted
The time of dress rehearsal came, but Barnaby had lost Knarl, so it took the crew some time to find him, and when they did, Barnaby accidentally uttered the words of ill fortune and yelled after realising his mistake, sending Knarl off in a fright while making a big mess on the stage. Flitwick was shocked when all the decorations had been ruined and he cancelled the show immediately. Jacob's sibling wouldn't admit defeat and gathered their friends in the Three Broomsticks Inn, and they planned to put up the play there, but due to the confined space and limited resources, it had to be adapted to a one-wizard play. Flitwick was on board with this plan, and soon Andre finished Jacob's sibling's costume for the Spring Nymph. Later in the Inn, they took the stage and completed the performance to the resounding applause from the audience. Their original co-star met with them alone in the Great Hall after the show and shared the romantic scene with them like it should've been.
Jacob's sibling, Jae and Fang went to the Forest Grove and searched for Scabbers together with Torvus. They found some rat tracks which led to human shoeprints. They found some sandwich crumbs in the Prefects' Bathroom with Charlie. Following the cue, they searched the kitchens, where Fang found some Fairy wings, and the Care of Magical Creatures grounds, where Fang found some cursed ice, and the Icy Corridor, where Fang found some animal fur, and the Cursed Corridor, where they found Scabbers at last with an old parchment.
Jacob's sibling returned Fang to Hagrid and Scabbers to Percy. They discussed Scabbers with friends, during which Ben mentioned finding Scabbers in the Artefact Room once, and despite Percy's defence, the rest still found him suspicious. Ben later told Jacob's sibling he believed Scabbers had been following him and might have also been responsible for his memory loss. Jacob's sibling presented the parchment to Rakepick, who told them it was the Marauder's Map.
While Jacob's sibling was having a drink with Barnaby and Chiara in the Three Broomsticks Inn, an interesting-looking wizard walked in and sat on a table who claimed to be in desperate need of someone for an extraordinary adventure. They recognised him as Xenophilius Lovegood, the publisher of The Quibbler, and he stood up on the table and said he was seeking journalists to provide photographic evidence of the existence of Crumple-Horned Snorkacks, which he had heard reports to have been spotted near Hogwarts. Barnaby and Chiara disagreed over whether it was real, but Jacob's sibling thought it would be an interesting opportunity if it did exist and they could take a picture of it, which would be placed on the front cover of the next issue. After some discussion, Chiara thought the reward money could be a big deal to her, and they agreed to try searching for it.
Chiara taught Jacob's sibling a tracking spell and Jacob's sibling tracked down a Niffler for practice. They then tried searching for a Crumple-Horned Snorkack in Hagrid's Garden, but found Barnaby with his camera, who was trying to snap a photo of a Moon Frog, which he thought Xenophilius might accept as well. The three went back to Three Broomsticks and tried to convince Xenophilius, and he agreed to take a photo of a Moon Frog if Crumple-Horned Snorkacks couldn't be found. Afterwards, Ismelda confronted them and said she was up to something big.
Barnaby took Jacob's sibling to the forest in the Magical Creatures Reserve and said this had been where he had first seen the Moon Frog. After retracing his footsteps, Barnaby thought he had an idea of where the Moon Frog could be, and when he went off to find out, Jacob's sibling met with Chiara, who divulged that the "school supplies" she had been meaning to get from the reward money was actually for preventing losing control during her next transformation. When Jacob's sibling and Chiara talked to Ismelda, they were surprised to hear that Ismelda wasn't looking for a Crumple-Horned Snorkack at all, but instead was after something "definitely real".
At night, Jacob's sibling followed Ismelda and her friends to Hagrid's garden and overheard them talking about capturing a werewolf before it transformed and exposing Dumbledore for harbouring a werewolf at Hogwarts. Terrible still, Ismelda was already suspecting Chiara, so Jacob's sibling decided to warn Chiara before she came, but Chiara then appeared, and when they prepared to use the Full Body-Bind Curse on Chiara, Jacob's sibling used the Knockback Jinx on her first, knocking her out of the curse's way. Chiara got away in time and Ismelda was determined to seek another chance.
When Jacob's sibling spoke with Chiara again in the Courtyard, Chiara thanked them for saving her from the gang's curses, and when Jacob's sibling told her about Ismelda's intent, she was worried, so they played Wizard's Chess together to help them think the situation through. They came up with the idea of making Ismelda think it was a hoax, and Jacob's sibling talked to Barnaby, who suggested asking Tulip and Tonks for help. They formed a plan involving Barnaby telling Ismelda he had seen a werewolf near Hagrid's Garden and Tonks and Tulip wearing a werewolf disguise.
Jacob's sibling then checked on Chiara, who was searching for ingredients for the Wolfsbane Potion in the Potions Classroom. They helped her, but didn't find any. When the time of executing the plan came, Jacob's sibling went down to Hagrid's Garden and saw the completed werewolf custome made by Tulip and Tonks. Jacob's sibling greeted Ismelda when she arrived, and pretended to search with her for the creature Barnaby'd told her that he'd spotted. Jacob's sibling pointed to a pumpkin, behind which Tulip and Tonks in the werewolf custome emerged and scared the life out of Ismelda, who asked Jacob's sibling for help. Tulip and Tonks then took off the custome, and Jacob's sibling faked their surprise towards them.
The next day, Jacob's sibling and Chiara went to the Great Lake to meet with Barnaby and search for the Moon Frog. After a while, Barnaby came and claimed he had seen it, but had lost it again. Jacob's sibling then used the tracking spell to reveal the tracks of the Moon Frog, and the three eventually found it following the trace. Barnaby took a picture of it with his camera, and when Jacob's sibling noticed Glow Bugs flying above it, Barnaby said it looked familiar to him. Jacob's sibling realised it looked like Sir Ribbithe, which Liz was said to have been finding, and that the glow was because of him feasting on the Glow Bugs.
Although it wasn't a real Moon Frog, when Jacob's sibling looked at the photo, he discovered a Quintaped, a very rare creature, in the background. They went back to Three Broomsticks and negotiated with Xenophilius, who decided to put the photo on the front page because of it. The students enjoyed some Butterbeer together, and when Jacob's sibling asked Tonks whether the Quintaped had been her in disguise again, she neither confirmed nor denied it.
At night, Rakepick explained to Jacob's sibling all about the Marauder's Map. It was her belief that the Map would show them the location of the man who attacked Mundungus Fletcher who would have the Vault portrait, the key to the next Cursed Vault. They opened the Map and saw a person moving very fast, but before Jacob's sibling could see their name, Rakepick pocketed the Map. They did, however, see that person's locations.
Jacob's sibling searched the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom with Barnaby, only to find a black quill on Rakepick's desk, which couldn't be Untransfigured. They then searched Filch's office with Tonks, and found some negative reports on Rakepick. They went on to search Jacob's room with Tulip and Merula and found another black quill, which Jacob's sibling Untransfigured into another Jacob's notebook, which recorded Jacob's collaboration with Rakepick, Rakepick's fear of the Cabal, and that she had saved Jacob's sibling's life years ago.
Jacob's sibling talked to Rakepick, who denied everything written on the notebook. Realising that Rakepick only respected strength, they met Merula and practised spells. Merula thought this wasn't enough, and invited them to duel with Diego Caplan, her duelling instructor, which they did before facing Rakepick herself. Rakepick was still reluctant to divulge anything, but Jacob's sibling wouldn't compromise. They prepared to duel her, but she made the first move and broke their wand.
Jacob's sibling and Rakepick then went to Ollivanders to purchase another wand. They met Fletcher once more in Knockturn Alley, who admitted he hadn't been attacked, but instead had sold the map to an unknown buyer by leaving it outside of Hog's Head Inn for them to pick up. Jacob's sibling went to Hog's Head and met Aberforth, who hated Fletcher and wouldn't talk about him, but gave them a letter from Albus. They then went to ask Albus, who revealed they were a Legilimens like their brother, and that Snape would teach them both Legilimency and Occlumency.
Jacob's sibling and Severus Snape discussing Legilimency and Occlumency
Snape started their lessons by breaking into their minds (seeing Jacob's sibling's times with their brother) and teaching them this ability. When Snape asked Jacob's sibling to look into his mind, he also used Occlumency to prevent them from doing this.
Then he asked them to practise Legilimency elsewhere, so they used it on Filch, Rosmerta, Pitts and Barnaby. They found out from Rosmerta that she had once hidden Jacob from the Ministry. When they used it on Rakepick, she also used Occlumency to deny their access.
They returned to meet Snape and practised Occlumency themselves. They hadn't perfected the skill by the time Snape used Legilimency on them again, but they were improving. When they asked why he was teaching them these, Snape answered that he would rather have liked to see them being a weapon against Rakepick than a pawn of hers. He then reminded them about the Garrotting Gas he had given them and mentioned that Rakepick would inevitably turn on them.
With Madams Mary and Rosa Karasu visiting Hogwarts, a cook-off was to be held, inviting students to sign up for the competition, of which Mary and Rosa would be the judges. As they were Tulip's grans, she introduced them to Jacob's sibling personally, who was greeted affectionately by them. Tulip also asked for Jacob's sibling's help to co-organise the cook-off. The two discussed the event with Mary and Rosa and decided to recruit Badeea as a contestant. Badeea wanted to cook a fish stew, and after bartering a box of EaziKleen Self-Propelling Scourers with Madam Rosmerta, Jae successfully got them a fresh and delicious fish.
The next candidate on the list was Diego, who was willing to bake an enchanted dancing flan. They consulted Professor Flitwick about what spell to use, and were taught the Locomotion Charm. Meanwhile, Tulip recruited Ismelda and Jae, who were cooking a meat pie with blood sausages and a tteokbokki respectively. They talked when Andre was designing some chef's robes, and alighted on the idea of inviting Murphy to be the host, who agreed and named the event the "Great Hogwarts Cook-Off".
The Great Hogwarts Cook-Off
The cook-off was held in the kitchens, during which the four contestant prepared their dishes while Murphy commentated. At the end, Mary and Rosa provided some critical insights towards each dish, but Ismelda was angered by her dough being called "sad and soggy" and transformed her pie into a monster, which destroyed Diego's flan. Jacob's sibling was quick to cast the Eradication Spell to wipe the monster out of existence, but even then, the cook-off had become a disaster. Tulip became very upset and left the scene, and though Jacob's sibling managed to cheer her up, the situation between Ismelda and Diego was more than intense. Jacob's sibling visited the two of them respectively and helped both of them with their affairs, and when Diego insisted on duelling to resolve the conflict, Jacob's sibling volunteered to duel him on behalf of Ismelda, effectively acting as her champion. After the duel, Diego and Ismelda reconciliated, and all of them went back to salvaging the cook-off.
The opening of the feast
They gathered all the contestants and worked on improving their recipes. After they talked about what they loved about the dishes they chose, Jacob's sibling realised they could all make a progress by sharing their ingredients. The Madams Karasu were intrigued by the idea of collaboration, and heartily agreed to it. After the dishes were completed, students gathered in the Great Hall to have a feast, before Jacob's sibling was commended by the judges and the faculty for demonstrating the event's true spirit and upholding Hogwarts's ideals of community, collaboration and friendship.
Dumbledore called them in and asked them to use Legilimency on him to find out the answers they were looking for. Later, just as Jacob's sibling were catching up with their friends, Rowan seemed to be possessed and acted like the unidentified cloaked figure. They attacked one of them, but was knocked unconscious by Ben. In the Hospital Wing, Madam Pomfrey examined Rowan and believed they had been under the Imperius Curse. Since one had to be near their target to cast the curse, Jacob's sibling recounted their surroundings, and together with Rakepick, they found Percy to be suspicious.
In Knockturn Alley, Jacob's sibling and Rakepick continued their conversation. Rakepick had spoken to Percy, and though she didn't think Percy had the ability to cast the Imperius Curse, her instincts told her he was somehow intimately involved. Rakepick wanted to teach Jacob's sibling the Cruciatus Curse, but they didn't want to learn an Unforgivable Curse like it. She then demonstrated on a nearby Dark wizard, who immediately screamed in pain. Witnessing this didn't change Jacob's sibling's mind, but Rakepick still believed it would be useful under certain circumstances.
When Jacob's sibling was back at Hogwarts, another student had been trapped in a portrait. They talked to other portraits, and following the clues they gave, they searched the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom with Badeea, and found a letter from Kettleburn. He had told Rakepick to purchase cats because the castle had a rat problem mainly in the upstairs corridors. They used the Revelio Charm there, and revealed Scabbers, who immediately transformed into his human form, Peter Pettigrew. The two duelled and Pettigrew was forced to tell them that Rakepick had stolen the Map and the vault portrait was actually a Portkey which now belonged to Peeves, but before finishing, he wiped Jacob's sibling's memory of this conversation. Rakepick, however, had arrived and heard the part of the portrait and Peeves.
Rakepick gathered Jacob's sibling, Bill and Merula to talk about their plan of retrieving the portrait, and they decided to ask the House ghosts for help. During a Quidditch match between Hufflepuff and Slytherin, Diego led Jacob's sibling and another student to the Hufflepuff common room to consult the Fat Friar, but didn't receive much advice. They then went to the Slytherin common room and talked to Bloody Baron, who was reluctant to provide help. In the Gryffindor common room, Nearly Headless Nick generously offered some tactics. The Grey Lady in the Ravenclaw common room, on the other hand, only talked to them so that they could leave early. At the end of their conversation, she said the House ghosts couldn't help them, leading Jacob's sibling to think that maybe Professor Binns had certain ways around Peeves.
They visited Binns, who still attempted to give them a lecture on the Goblin Rebellion of 1612. After learning their true motives, he tried to talk about Peeves, but only rounded back to the Goblin Rebellions. They then paid another visit to Duncan Ashe, who wanted Jacob's sibling to talk about their curse-breaking adventures first. Duncan, after satisfied with their stories, promised to set up a meeting with Peeves for them. He also mentioned that they need to do something big, in other words, cause chaos, to get his attention.
Jacob's sibling met Duncan in the Courtyard and he said Peeves would want them to cast Lacarnum Inflamari on Snape or Filch. Duncan distracted them and Jacob's sibling cast the spell on one of them. Peeves then showed up, but only wanted some more chaos. They went to the Grand Staircase to annoy Sir Cadogan by crediting his defeat of Wyvern of Wye to Merlin, battled Kettleburn's Chimaera on the Training Grounds, started a food fight in the kitchens, and tossed some Frog Spawn Soap into the bathtub in the Prefects' Bathroom, where Charlie was having a bath. After having seen all these, Peeves gave them a portrait of himself, which Jacob's sibling rejected naturally. When asked what would it take to hand out the vault portrait, Peeves said a masterpiece of pranks was needed for a masterpiece of portrait.
Penny helped Jacob's sibling brew some Wit-Sharpening Potion and shared it while brainstorming with Tonks, Tulip and Jae. Tonks inadvertently inspired Jacob's sibling to invent their own spell, and they immediately talked to Badeea and found out she had already invented the Star Shower Spell, which they thought would be the perfect choice. The spell, however, wasn't working as she expected, so Jacob's sibling researched in the Restricted Section with Rowan, but didn't find anything useful. Deciding that Dark magic would probably not help with the Star Shower Spell, they went to Flitwick with Bill and Snape with Merula, and from Snape they learned the incantation they had been using, Stella Corusco, was wrong and would only make the stars shimmer instead of shower. After falling victim to Jacob's sibling's prank while bathing, Charlie decided to take showers more often, so Jacob's sibling asked him to describe showers to them, during which he mentioned the word "cascade". They reflected on it and eventually came up with Stella Cascadia which turned out to be the correct incantation.
Although the spell is ready, they still needed something that would get everyone outside to see it in action. In Hog's Head Inn, Bilton Bilmes suggested a banned prank, which sounded like something Jae could get. Jae thought of the jinxed version of Ever-Bashing Boomerangs which would whiz super fast, but only Mundungus Fletcher had it. They met Fletcher in Three Broomsticks Inn, and he asked them to duel a Dark wizard who, according to him, had cheated him. They met the Dark wizard in Knockturn Alley, who started duelling them instantly. After the duel, he threatened to crush Fletcher if he stole from him again. Fletcher then sent them the jinxed Ever-Bashing Boomerangs as promised.
During a Care of Magical Creatures class, Jacob's sibling and their friends brainstormed ideas, and Liz came up with the troll. To train for subduing a troll, Jacob's sibling duelled Diego and visited Hagrid to learn more about trolls. After learning that any meat would lure trolls, they went down to the kitchens and distracted Pitts with a better work ethic while Liz raided the food stores. They also convinced a friend to duel the troll together and made their outfit more "chaotic".
Jacob's sibling and their friend subduing the troll
With everything prepared, Jacob's sibling, Bill and Charlie went to the Prefects' Bathroom and invited Peeves to witness the mischief masterpiece. Jacob's sibling, Tulip, Tonks and Jae released the enchanted Ever-Bashing Boomerangs in the Great Hall, and they started to fly everywhere instead of flying back to them as expected. The Boomerangs drove nearly everyone out of the Hall before Jacob's sibling used the Freezing Charm to stop them flying. Just then, they heard screams from the Training Grounds caused by the troll, so they quickly arrived and subdued it while Peeves watched. Hagrid then came, disappointed by them, and decided to take care of the troll.
Jacob's sibling then cast the Star Shower Spell with Badeea in the Courtyard, which caused a real Star Shower during which meteorites bashed towards the ground. Peeves was satisfied and told them the vault portrait was in his room, which they entered and got the portrait. In the kitchens, after Jae suggested showing it to Rakepick, Filch arrived and questioned them about the banned Boomerangs. Before their conversation ended, Pitts ordered Filch to leave for bringing Mrs Norris to the kitchens. He later explained that he did this because Dumbledore asked him to take care of Jacob's sibling, and that he wanted to see them free Beatrice because of his gratefulness towards Helga Hufflepuff for letting house-elves work in the kitchens, before announcing their detention was over, but Jae's was not. He then gave Jacob's sibling a piece of meat as a farewell gift.
Jacob's sibling presented the vault portrait to Rakepick who immediately told them they would be facing a dragon according to nothing, and took it away. They talked to Charlie, Professor Binns and Hagrid and learned some information about how to defend against dragons. Rakepick then called them in with Merula and Bill and taught them the Conjunctivitis Curse. They visited Kettleburn too, who had seen dragons up close.
Merula invited Jacob's sibling to the Hog's Head Inn and brought a notebook to ask them about the Cursed Vaults. After some discussion, Jacob's sibling pitched a training plan for her and she agreed to carry on with it. They first met in the Cursed Corridor to search for a potential hidden entrance to no avail. They then decided to bring Diego and head to the Forest Grove to duel Torvus, who by then had already been accepted back to the Centaur Camp. Merula didn't win against Torvus, so he suggested Jacob's sibling and Merula team up against him. Merula wasn't ready to do this, so they headed back to Hogwarts and engaged in a spellcasting competition. Bill, as the judge, declared both of them as winners to Merula's disappointment.
Merula borrowed the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom from Rakepick and attempted to teach Jacob's sibling the Killing Curse. They then brought the subject of Rakepick trying to teach them the Cruciatus Curse up, about which Merula insisted them talk more. During the conversation, Merula said her parents had taught her the Killing Curse before they'd gone to Azkaban. She also tried demonstrating Fiendfyre, but the spell went wrong and they couldn't turn it down. Fortunately, Rakepick arrived and extinguished the fire. At lunch, Merula told Jacob's sibling how she had discovered her parents had been Death Eaters and she was now looked after by her aunt during holidays.
Jacob's sibling convinced a friend to go into the Buried Vault with them in Hog's Head, but as soon as they left, Ben came up and volunteered to do the same. Rakepick arranged a private lecture on Portkeys for Jacob's sibling, Bill, Merula and Ben (who would all be entering the Vault) and explained that the vault portrait should be a Portkey that would travel that night. They then deducted that the Vault had no entrance due to the designed way of entering, and soon Ben realised there could have no exit too. Rakepick later spoke with Jacob's sibling, telling them that they should take the lead should she die.
Merula, Bill, Rakepick, Jacob's sibling and their friend (possibly Charlie or Penny) waited for Ben on the Training Grounds, who, upon arrival, said he had been writing an important letter to an important wizard. After some preparation, they grasped the vault portrait together and was transported to the room connecting to the Buried Vault.
The Hungarian Horntail in the Buried Vault
It appeared to be a deserted underground room with furniture and a massive portrait wall. Broken shackles and blood indicated there had been a dragon at some point, but now none was to be seen. They searched the Vault and when Jacob's sibling wanted to try opening a door on the portrait wall, Rakepick refused to let them, so their friend went up and used the Unlocking Charm, but it didn't work. Ben simply knocked on the door and a Hungarian Horntail appeared and stepped out of the portraits. The Vault started to collapse, and while Rakepick cast the Slowing Charm on the falling rocks, Jacob's sibling used the Conjunctivitis Curse on the Horntail, thwarting several of its attempts to attack and leading to their victory.
Patricia Rakepick turning on Jacob's sibling and their friends
The door on the portraits still wouldn't open, and Jacob's sibling was used Legilimency by, according to Rakepick, the door. They tried to do the same to the door and successfully opened it. Suddenly, Rakepick knocked them down and said she had once attempted to enter the Vault with Jacob and Peter Pettigrew, who had fled out of the Vault with the portrait after seeing the Horntail, leaving her and Jacob to die. It turned out that she was only using Jacob's sibling for the Vault (because only Legilimens could open the door) and the rest of the students for dragon bait. The portrait curse hadn't been broken, Jacob had been trapped in a portrait that was beyond the door, and Rakepick had been transported to the Forbidden Forest when she had tried to acquire the treasure inside the centre column of the Vault.
Merula attempted to stop Rakepick from killing all of them, but Rakepick used the Cruciatus Curse on her in advance. Jacob's sibling and their friends cast several spells, but were all deflected by the Shield Charm. Rakepick said she was under orders (from R) to kill one of Jacob's sibling's friends, but before she had her way, Jacob's sibling thought of the Garrotting Gas and released it, suffocating Rakepick and making her Disapparate.
Jacob's sibling opening the centre column in the Vault
They went into the Vault and found Jacob in a portrait, who asked them to touch the centre column. After Jacob was released, they had a brief reunion and Jacob's sibling told him how they had come. Upon hearing Rakepick had been here, Jacob wanted to stop her and Disapparated too. Jacob's sibling opened the column and found a Merperson Trident and a portrait of Hogwarts, which was also a Portkey and transported them out of the Vault.
Jacob's sibling and their friends landed in the Great Hall, where they spent some time with Merula before she was sent to the Hospital Wing while others called the professors. During this time, Ben seemed too shocked to behave normally. Jacob's sibling later had a conversation with Dumbledore about Jacob and visited Beatrice and Merula.
Before Jacob's sibling and Merula sorted out where their relationship was going, Ben alerted them that Sickleworth had been missing. They went to Hagrid and Kettleburn for help, who gathered a lot of Crups and Puffskeins to cheer them up, and even to Red Cap's Hole, where they met the Red Cap (who was struck down by Ben with the Knockback Jinx) and found Sickleworth with a Coral Key. However, he escaped again when they were in Hog's Head, but they found him soon enough. Ben later confessed the impact of the latest incident on him and his decision of turning into a new person.
At the end of the school year, Jacob's sibling and Charlie planned a surprise party at the Three Broomsticks Inn for Bill who was about to graduate. During the party, Alastor Moody Apparated in who said to Jacob's sibling they had much to talk about, and Disapparated with them immediately. For the next hours, they were told some secrets which would change everything.
During the 1989–1990 school year, their sixth year, Jacob's sibling proceeded to take N.E.W.T.-level Transfiguration, Charms, Divination, Herbology, History of Magic, Potions, Care of Magical Creatures, Defence Against the Dark Arts, and Astronomy.
At the start of the 1989–1990 school year Start-of-Term Feast, Dumbledore delivered a speech as usual urging students to focus on their studies. Jacob's sibling didn't see Merula, Ben and Beatrice at the Feast. Alastor Moody then met them in the Hog's Head Inn, retold the persues of R, and said he would keep them updated with his findings and teach them to protect them and their friends.
They learned from Penny that Beatrice had estranged her over the summer and her appearance was barely recognisable. They went to the Courtyard and saw Beatrice hanging out with Ismelda, having adopted the same hair-over-one-eye appearance. They tried talking to them but couldn't get them to trust them, so they went to Barnaby for help and only received the advice of "spending more time with Beatrice".
Before they had time to talk to Beatrice, however, Beatrice and Snape had found a Petrified student, presumably by a statue curse. Later, Jacob's sibling took their first Divination class. Before the class ended, Professor Trelawney predicted something about them that was mostly ominous.
Charlie and Percy decided to help Jacob's sibling decipher the prophecy, and when Percy mentioned one had to be as skilled at Divination as a Centaur to interpret it correctly, Jacob's sibling thought of Torvus and consulted him, but he didn't make out anything either. It was possible for Jacob's sibling to meet other Centaurs, but in order to do so, they must prepare some offerings to be allowed in the Centaur Camp. So they gathered some herbs from Professor Sprout, some rock cakes from Hagrid and a historical star chart from Badeea.
Having gained these items, Jacob's sibling was allowed in the Centaur Camp by Firenze, who agreed to uncover the meaning of the prophecy, but would have to take some time to interact with the heavens to do so. In the Artefact Room, after Jacob's sibling listened to an argument between Penny and Beatrice, they noticed a skull was missing and suspected Ben who had claimed to steal and trade it. They went to Knockturn Alley and asked Ben about the skull, but Ben was instead searching for answers about Rakepick and the final Cursed Vault. Ben confronted another wizard who revealed himself to be Mundungus Fletcher. He told them he had spotted the white-robed wizard who had attacked him again and had been laying low to prevent him from knowing his whereabouts. Later, Jacob's sibling discussed recent matters with Dumbledore, and when they mentioned the white-robed wizard, Dumbledore was reminded of the Mahoutokoro School of Magic, from where students would be expelled with their robes turning white if they broke the Japanese wizard's code or practised Dark Magic.
Jacob's sibling was surprised to hear Bill Weasley returning to Hogwarts. After they greeted him in the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom, he said he had come to tutor them and their friends since this year's DADA professor was particularly useless. For their first lesson, they learned the Cursed Barrier Spell, but modified so that anyone with the Dark Mark was prevented from entering. Later, they found Fred and George Weasley in Red Cap's Hole who claimed to have followed a wizard here that looked like Jacob.
During one of the Defence Against the Dark Arts classes of Bill Weasley, he told the students about the very next assignment of his, which was to travel to the Romanian Dragon Sanctuary and retrieve Urgruff's Golden Egg. The dragonologist-in-training, Charlie Weasley and his friend Jacob's sibling decided to convince Bill to take them to the assignment. Though Bill was unwilling to do so, the two went to the Gringotts Wizarding Bank to persuade him. They visited Griphook the goblin, who saw them and agreed to the idea of letting them go to the Sanctuary.
Jabob's sibling, Charlie Weasley, Merula Snyde, Barnaby Lee and Penny Haywood were selected to be brought to the Sanctuary, so they got prepared for the dangerous journey ahead by visiting Professor Silvanus Kettleburn and Rubeus Hagrid in order to learn more about dragons.
Jacob's sibling and others camping
After the preparation, they and Bill Weasley used a Portkey to go there, and upon arriving, they camped using the camping tent Hagrid had given them. At night they played truth or dare that made Charlie upset as Bill was dared to reveal an embarrassing memory of his brother. In the morning, he left the camp earlier before others would notice in order to carry out the assignment by himself; finding the golden dragon egg of Urgruff the Unwary's.
While searching for the egg, the other members of the group noticed the disappearance of Charlie Weasley, so they interrupted searching for the egg and instead searched for him. Jacob's sibling and Bill heard a sound from a cave, went in, and found Charlie injured and laid with Urgruff's egg. In the meantime, a vicious young Hungarian Horntail appeared blocking the door of the cave, so Jacob's sibling fought it while Bill was helping his brother with the injury. Jacob's sibling overcame the Hungarian Horntail using the Sleeping Charm, and they fled. They returned to Gringotts with the egg and then explained the carried out task to Griphook.
They confirmed from Madam Pince that the wizard had indeed been Jacob, who in fact had been in the Library rummaging through books, but couldn't find the books he wanted. They then went to Flourish and Blotts and talked to Madam Villanelle, who told them Jacob had looked for books on Mahoutokoro School of Magic. They thought Jacob might have left a secret message again, but none was found. They encountered Merula in Knockturn Alley who was still planning to kill Rakepick, and Jacob Apparated to their side seconds later, who said an assassin was after both them and Merula. They wanted to know more about Jacob's target and motivation, but he still didn't have much time and left after a quick practice duel.
Jacob's sibling met Cedric Diggory who just started school, and when they were talking, Jacob's sibling saw Sickleworth running by carrying a white feather in his mouth. They picked up Beatrice while following his trace and tracked all the way down to the Transfiguration Classroom, but didn't find Sickleworth. Jacob's sibling thought Rakepick (whom Sickleworth might have been following) could have been investigating the statue curse and went to the Hospital Wing where all Petrified students were resting. They caught a glimpse of Sickleworth there, and followed him to Jacob's room and met Jacob, who believed the feather was a Transfigured quill. Jacob's sibling Untransfigured it into a note and discovered it to be for themselves, warning they "owed" a friend's life. After Jacob declined to let them search for Rakepick with him for their safety, they decided to investigate the owl from whom the feather had been taken.
They went up to the Owlery and searched for the owl with Talbott who happened to be there, but failed. However, Talbott mentioned him seeing a white owl flying over the Forest Grove at some point, and that was where Jacob's sibling later saw the owl with Liz, Chiara and Borf. Unfortunately, they scared away the owl, who had been given the name Artemis by Liz. They didn't find the owl on the Hogsmeade station platform, which was a shady spot that owls preferred, and went to take a break in Zonko's with Tonks, but saw rogue Fanged Frisbees flying around with no customers. They helped Bilton blasting them out of the way, and Bilton suggested looking in Hog's Head, which they did, and found out from Aberforth that Rakepick had just been there and then gone to Knockturn Alley.
Jacob's sibling arrived at Knockturn Alley and saw Ben still interrogating Dark wizards and witches. They encountered a witch who knew about the white-robed wizard, and Jacob's sibling became suspicious and used the Revelio Charm to reveal Mundungus Fletcher. He said he had seen Rakepick going to collect dark artefacts left behind with Artemis, which belonged to her associates. Jacob's sibling went search for dark artefacts in the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom, but the artefacts there weren't Rakepick's. Filch told them they were in the professors' hands, and knowing Snape had a personal interest on Rakepick, they asked him about them and learned that Rakepick had cursed the artefacts with unfamiliar Dark Magic that could only be broken by Dumbledore. It turned out that Dumbledore had stored the artefacts at the Ministry of Magic, and Tulip happened to know that Chester Davies, a former Ravenclaw Prefect, was working for the Ministry.
In Flourish and Blotts, Jacob's sibling discussed the matter with Chester. Chester thought the artefacts were stored in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, but was reluctant to sneak them in. Then he revealed that he himself had sneaked in with an Invisibility Cloak, which got Jacob's sibling to ask Jae if he could get one. Jae knew a person who might have one, but due to their unfriendly history, they had to gather a few gifts for him. They retrieved a Remembrall from Hog's Head and got some Fireproof Socks from Andre before meeting their dealer, Alistair Fidgen. Alistair didn't forgive Jae for selling him fake love potions, and Jacob's sibling had to duel him before he hurt Jae more. After the duel, he seemed appeased, but still wanted them to give him a real love potion before he could hand over the Invisibility Cloak.
Jacob's sibling gathered some rose thorns from the Herbology Classroom, peppermint from the kitchens, powdered moonstone and pearl dust from a witch in Hogsmeade station to help Penny brew a love potion. They then successfully traded the potion for an Invisibility Cloak, and when Alistair heard them talking about breaking into the Ministry, he suggested using the cloak on easier targets first. So they first went to the Transfiguration Classroom to eavesdrop on McGonagall and Flitwick and heard them talking about a dangerous wizard from Mahoutokoro and an exchange programme with Castelobruxo. At the Care of Magical Creatures grounds, they heard Hagrid and Kettleburn discussing overly-aggressive Grindylows in the Black Lake. They also spied on Binns and Pince considering continuing the research about the history of Merpeople they had agreed to do for Rakepick before she had taken flight. For the last practice, they eavesdropped in Hog's Head, but Moody Apparated in, located them using his magical eye, and told them there was trouble on the Training Grounds.
The trouble turned out to simply be a test of Jacob's sibling's duelling skills. After a duel, Moody alerted them that R had former Death Eaters in its ranks and a Dark wizard had escaped going to Azkaban. When Jacob's sibling hurried to Divination class, Professor Trelawney Saw a Dark wizard had been sighted nearby and instructed students to scrutinise Rita Skeeter's story about it on the Daily Prophet. Jacob's sibling sensed the Dark wizard must have been near Hogwarts to be after them, so they thought of leaving Hogwarts, but the idea was eventually abandoned after they talked to their friends. After a brief skirmish between Charlie, who felt a bit at loss due to his dangerous adventures with Jacob's sibling, and Ben, who wanted to stop Charlie from attacking them more, Ben went with Jacob's sibling to the Spider's Lair to prove his abilities by showing them how he had taunted and attacked the Acromantula there (possibly the one guarding the Forest Vault). The Acromantula was immediately angered, and Jacob's sibling duelled it in time to prevent it from hurting Ben.
Jacob's sibling, Penny and Cedric observing the Petrified Madam Pomfrey
Jacob's sibling thought Ben was too over-confident, but Ben didn't think there was such a thing, and insisted them meet Cedric again, who was apparently not concerned about Ben being who he was. Then Cedric and Jacob's sibling went to the Hospital Wing to help Madam Pomfrey with Petrified students while talking to each other, but before Jacob's sibling could recruit Penny and brew some Pepperup Potion, they had a conversation with the Weasley brothers and learned that Fred and George had pulled off a prank again and Scabbers had been missing, but nothing the Weasleys themselves couldn't handle. They successfully brewed the potion with Penny, but before they left the Potions Classroom, Snape arrived and told them there were bigger problems, which was that Madam Pomfrey herself had been Petrified.
Soon, Dumbledore gathered all students in the Great Hall and gave some new rules in light of recent events, including staying close to the castle. Jacob's sibling followed this rule and researched the possible location of the final Cursed Vault in the Library with Cedric, eventually deciding the Vault was close to or inside the Black Lake. Naturally, to investigate the Lake meant sneaking out of the castle, which they did with Beatrice (who threatened to tell Dumbledore their plan) and the Invisibility Cloak, but didn't find any clues. Just as they were about to return to the castle, the white-robed wizard appeared, instantly hit Jacob's sibling with the Banishing Charm and left.
Now heavily injured, Jacob's sibling turned to Chiara for help to heal the wounds. It turned out that Dumbledore knew what had happened at the lakeshore and gave Jacob's sibling and Beatrice detention. After the detention was over, Talbott met Jacob's sibling in the Owlery and told them he had found the white owl, but scared it away after she dropped the letters she was clutching, one of which was written in Japanese. They translated it in the Library and found it describing white quills hidden at the Black Lake.
They went back to the lakeshore to search and found a white quill, which they Untransfigured to reveal a message sent by R addressed to the white-robed wizard, warning him the Ministry had authorised Dementors for his arrest. Jacob's sibling immediately warned Dumbledore, who held another emergency meeting in the Great Hall informing students Aurors were on their way. When Moody arrived, he told them Jacob had been at the lakeshore too when the ambush occurred, and it had been he who stopped the wizard from continuing to attack them. They wondered whether Jacob was still at Hogwarts, so they searched Jacob's room with Ben, but instead found a black quill, which, upon Untransfiguration, revealed another note written to Jacob, asking him to meet the sender in the Forest Grove.
Jacob's sibling then joined up with Ben to go together into the Forest Grove to intercept the meeting. Ben recruited Merula to join them, which was at first not accepted by Jacob's sibling, but they were eventually convinced to take her. Before the departure, they also learned Flipendo Maxima from Badeea. The three went into the Forbidden Forest, heading to the Forest Grove. Unbeknownst to them however, they were being followed from a close distance behind them by Rowan. Eventually they reached the Forest Grove, and began to search for clues.
The search led them to the discovery of an Opal Necklace belonging to Rakepick. As they were discussing the discovery, a swarm of Dementors showed up and circled the group. The group then began casting the Patronus Charm to protect themselves, however they were unsuccessful as they were overwhelmed with the sheer number of present Dementors.
Rowan's death at the hands of Rakepick
Rakepick then Apparated into the vicinity and cast a powerful Patronus Charm, warding off all of the Dementors. She then engaged in a duel with the students, which was watched by Rowan. Eventually, Jacob's sibling and Merula were defeated, with only Ben still fighting. Rakepick deflected most of his attacks before Ben cast Flipendo Maxima at her, stating that it would teach her a lesson. She then told him that she would teach him a lesson for him to take to his grave, and subsequently cast a Killing Curse at Ben, intending to kill him. However, Rowan, who had been watching the entire duel from a close distance, sacrificed their life by jumping in front of Ben, ending their life and saving that of their friends.
Hogwarts students and staff raise their wand as a tribute to Rowan
Rowan's death struck the entirety of Hogwarts as an extremely painful event and their death was mourned by all of their friends, who found it difficult to come to terms with their tragic loss. In particular to suffer were Jacob's sibling, Ben, and Merula, all of whom had watched them die. A memorial service took place in the Great Hall, where Professor Dumbledore gave a brief eulogy of Rowan's life, aspirations and sacrifice before leading the students and staff in raising their wands as a tribute to Rowan.
Jacob's sibling and their friends gathered in their common rooms, and the Heads of House announced the ban of leaving the castle had been lifted because the white-robed wizard was off Hogwarts grounds. They went for a drink in the Three Broomsticks Inn and recollected memories about Rowan with everybody there.
Jacob's sibling, Ben and Merula starting the Circle of Khanna
Rowan's murder prompted a vengeful Jacob's sibling, Merula and Ben to form their own secret organisation to combat the malevolent R and get revenge on Rakepick for what she had done. They gathered some of their friends in the Hog's Head Inn and told them about R, the threat bigger than Rakepick. The organisation was named Circle of Khanna in memory of Rowan with Jacob's sibling taking up the role of leader.
For the first tasks, the members split into smaller groups based on their abilities and interests. Jacob's sibling was surprised to find Beatrice in the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom since the Circle was supposed to be a secret. Beatrice expressed interest in joining the Circle, which Jacob's sibling and Penny didn't prevent. What's more, Fred and George were seen practising spells in the Transfiguration Classroom and clearly had a interest in the Circle too. Jacob's sibling also visited the group at the Care of Magical Creatures grounds where Barnaby, Liz and Charlie were training Murtlaps and helped them search for a Murtlap, Hester. Badeea and Talbott, on the other hand, were working on a map of the Great Lake in the Library and discussed it with Jacob's sibling. Ben also invited Cedric to join the Circle.
Still recovering from Rowan's death, Jacob's sibling had heart-to-heart conversations respectively with Dumbledore and Moody, and while Dumbledore wanted them to focus on grieving and healing, Moody liked the idea of fighting a secret organisation with another secret organisation. Unfortunately, Cedric had broken his arm and was resting in the Hospital Wing, and Jacob's sibling visited him, helped treating other patients and invited Chiara to join the Circle of Khanna, but Chiara was reluctant to do so because of her werewolf identity. Jacob's sibling eventually convinced her to join.
Jacob's sibling was called in Dumbledore's office and met Alanza Alves, an exchange student from Castelobruxo. Learning that Dumbledore wanted them to be a guide for Alanza, they started at the Training Grounds where Jacob's sibling planned to talk to Badeea and Talbott about the map of the Great Lake, and when Alanza thought the map was part of the tour, they showed it to her nevertheless, but decided to keep the Circle of Khanna a secret. However, Badeea let slip the name of the Circle, but Talbott made it up by saying it was a club, and when Alanza wanted to join, Jacob's sibling said it was better to experience classes first.
They went to the Potions Classroom and heard Professor Snape, Madam Pince and Mr Filch talking about things missing around the school. They then introduced Alanza and the staff to each other, and when Alanza described the three of them as "grumpy" and Filch called for Mrs Norris to leave, she unexpectedly purred and courted him and Alanza to Jacob's sibling's surprise. After class, Merula talked to Jacob's sibling about making the Circle of Khanna the top priority and was noticed by Alanza again.
Hagrid prepared several magical creatures in his garden as a "creature welcome", but unfortunately there were some conflicts among them due to the variety of their species. Jacob's sibling and Alanza calmed them down, during which Alanza showed great talent in dealing with creatures. While Alanza was talking to Hagrid, she mentioned the Circle of Khanna and that everyone was talking about it, making Hagrid feel both regretful (for not reaching out to Jacob's sibling sooner) and worried (that they might do something dangerous).
Jacob's sibling intended to continue their talk with Merula, and when they entered the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom, they saw Beatrice and Ismelda brewing a potion with the exact ingredients that Snape had said to have been missing, along with the books about advanced potions from the Library. Alanza deduced the potion was Felix Felicis from the spells of it, and Jacob's sibling learned that it was Penny's idea to higher their luck in beating Rakepick. When they couldn't conceal the facts anymore, Jacob's sibling explained everything about Rowan and the Circle of Khanna to Alanza.
After a brief conversation with Ben and Merula in Hog's Head, Jacob's sibling met Bill at Hogsmeade station who wanted to pay a visit to his younger brothers at school. They prepared his mother, Molly's home-made fudge in the kitchens with Charlie and Jae and tricked Percy, Fred and George into coming to the Owlery to receive it. When the Weasley brothers were all feeling down, Jacob's sibling helped explain the good side of life at Hogwarts, and when Fred mentioned Circle of Khanna, Bill immediately guessed what it was and wanted to join. He later talked to Jacob's sibling, Ben and Merula in private and suggested working in an organised way by finding clues back at where Rowan died as a start.
Before departure, Jacob's sibling spent a normal day at school. They had a lunch with Alanza and learned all about Castelobruxo, and while attending Divination class, Chiara reminded them this night would be especially dangerous to go to the Forbidden Forest due to a full moon. They also volunteered in the Hospital Wing due to two more Petrified students. In the Forbidden Forest, they encountered a werewolf and fought it, and when it was Stunned, Chiara in werewolf form hopped in and chased it away. Torvus then appeared and delivered a message from Firenze that he would tell them his findings about the prophecy if they studied the constellation Cetus.
They attended Astronomy class and studied Cetus under Professor Sinistra's supervision, then went into the Centaur Camp and learned from Firenze that his interpretation was they would have to "face a difficult decision, a powerful adversary, and another loss" and that the future would take them beyond anything they had experienced in the past six years. They talked with Dumbledore privately and decided it was necessary to better understand Jacob.
Jacob's sibling invited Charlie to go to the Prefects' Bathroom to visit Duncan and learned he had used to have secret meetings with Jacob down in the boathouse, so they went there and found a black quill and Untransfigured it to reveal a letter written by Jacob that informed them to go to the lakeshore and cast Vermillious if they wanted to meet him.
They went to the lakeshore and did so, and Jacob Apparated. He explained all about his motivations of teaming up with Rakepick and regrets towards his inability to stop her from hurting his sibling. Suddenly, Jacob spotted Beatrice floating on the Black Lake. They rushed her to the Hospital Wing, and she remembered going to the lake because of her nightmares about the white-robed wizard and seeing giant tentacles (of a Giant Squid) before jumping in to do some reconnaissance. To help Beatrice understand the nightmares, Jacob's sibling took her to see Snape for guidance, who used Legilimency, "struggled to tell nightmare from reality", and advised her to stop repressing her trauma. They enjoyed a game of Gobstone and heard Sir Cadogan's compliments of her valour.
Jacob's sibling, Chiara and Talbott reading about Grindylows in Flourish and Blotts
Ready to move on and face the future, Jacob's sibling held a meeting with the members of the Circle of Khanna and considered several threats in the Black Lake: Grindylows, the Giant Squid, and Merpeople. They consulted Kettleburn and Hagrid, and read books about the Grindylows, but instead found a page about the Whomping Willow and a description that said it was a message exchange centre for a large dark organisation. Knowing Alanza was a natural with creatures, they asked her about the Willow but came down to talk about Alanza's school life instead. When they were finishing up, the Weird Sisters showed up. They had no choice but to ask Professor Sprout to review the Whomping Willow in Herbology class, who told them there was no way to get near the Willow.
After class, Jacob's sibling was told Dumbledore discovered the Circle of Khanna. In his office, they saw Ben and Merula had been called up there too. They discussed possible consequences of their actions, but were surprised to find Dumbledore actually thinking it was a support group that focused on healing rather than vengeance. Later, they distracted Madam Pince and headed for the Restricted Section to research more about the Whomping Willow, and found Rowan's notes on the best woods for wands and broomsticks. It gave them motivation to head to the Whomping Willow, but first they called for Jacob and practised the Shield Charm, when Merula walked in and insisted an extra meeting of the Circle during which Jacob's sibling teach them the Charm. After an argument with the members that Merula picked for the meeting, Filch appeared and reported them to Dumbledore, who once again gave them detention.
After detention, they went together to the Whomping Willow and found a black quill which Untransfigured to a message. Before they were able to read the whole message, the Willow attempted to stomp them, so they quickly fled, but didn't bring the message. They went for another try and got the message, and read that a meeting of a Dark wizard society was soon to happen at Borgin and Burkes. They reviewed Concealment Charms with Flitwick and proper ways to disguise oneself with Tonks and Tulip, and scouted out Borgin and Burkes with Jae, when they spotted Alistair and met Moody.
They had a talk with Moody, who thought they needed an advanced strategy, such as disguising themselves to become a different person. They convinced Penny to brew some Polyjuice Potion, and they went together to gather ingredients. In the Potions Classroom, Professor Snape walked in and warned them about all the perils of the Polyjuice Potion, but didn't stop them from collecting ingredients. They subsequently collected all ingredients from various places, including a strand of Rakepick's hair, and brewed the Polyjuice Potion with Penny, but since it needed a month to be finished, they thought of imitating Rakepick from the inside out to pass the time. They played pretend with Bill, Merula, Fred and George and learned Rakepick's style with Alanza and Andre. They recruited Tonks, Jae and Talbott and confirmed from Jacob that Rakepick herself would most probably not appear at the meeting.
Rakepick striking down Jacob's sibling
When the Polyjuice Potion was ready and the time had come, Jacob's sibling put on Rakepick's outfit and transformed into her, while Tonks turned into a Dark witch and Jae wore the Invisibility Cloak. They went to Borgin and Burkes and saw the white-robed wizard waiting outside with a Dark witch. They were surprised that "Rakepick" showed up, but eventually made sense of it and talked to them about R's plans. From them, Jacob's sibling learned there was a secret agent (in other words, a mole) inside Hogwarts who was making progress with their plans, but before furthering their conversation, the real Rakepick Apparated and struck Jacob's sibling down, initiating a brief fight between Jacob's sibling's team, Moody, Jacob (who too Apparated) and Rakepick. Seeing as she was outnumbered, Rakepick Disapparated, and so did Jacob.
Jacob's sibling was too focused to realise the others had bound the white-robed wizard with ropes. Moody and they brought him back to the boathouse and interrogated him, learning nothing but that R was planning to recruit Jacob's sibling and expecting them to be its next leader, so Moody Stunned him and planned to throw him in Azkaban. Jacob's sibling gathered the Circle of Khanna in Hog's Head and discussed who the mole might've been, and it came down to Madam Hooch, Professor Snape and Mr Filch.
Jacob's sibling and Merula got Filch's attention by sticking a Blood Pop on Mrs Norris. Filch expressed affection for the school and the staff when talking to them, which diminished the possibility of him being the mole. Madam Hooch didn't sound like a person who would respect R as well and seemed to not have any idea as to what a student was trying to accomplish by dive-bombing the Black Lake. Jacob's sibling and Snape's conversation, however, was interrupted by Barnaby, who, along with many others, found another Petrified student. The situation showed them the search for the mole had to be put on hold and the focus should be breaking the statue curse.
Jacob's sibling reviewed the Bubble-Head Charm with Barnaby and Ben to improve their ability to breath underwater. After that, they decided to head into the Black Lake alone while Barnaby and Ben watched out for the mole. After sinking to the bottom surface, they saw a trident, encountered a hostile Merwoman and fought her, and before things got worse, exited the Lake. Wanting to learn more about how to soothe Merpeople, they interviewed Kettleburn and Hagrid with Liz, and also learned more in Flourish and Blotts, where Chiara found out the local Merpeople were fond of music.
Weird Sisters concert at the Great Lake
Jacob's sibling immediately thought of the Weird Sisters when it came to music. When talking to them, Jacob's sibling learned Filch had plucked Kirley's guitar and it was essential for a concert, so they went to his office and found it just before Filch came in. Under the pretence of wanting to write a song about Mrs Norris, they successfully took the guitar. After returning it, they did some planning and went to the Lake to do the concert. The Merwoman Jacob's sibling had fought and another Merperson surfaced from the water and listened in joy.
When Jacob's sibling entered the Lake again, they apologised and explained their intentions to the Merwoman, and she led them to the Merpeople village. The Village was huge and there appeared to be a lost city nearby. After waiting for a while, the Merwoman introduced Jacob's sibling to the Merqueen. The Merpeople showed them a broken lyre, comb and necklace and wanted them to bring new versions of these items.
Jacob's sibling picking a comb for the Merqueen
After a brief discussion with their friends, Jacob's sibling convinced Alanza to give them one of her treasured necklaces and asked Jae to acquire a lyre. Their search of combs with Charlie in the Prefects' Bathroom came down to a failure, but they spotted Dennis, which indicated Tulip was behind the missing combs. They found Tulip, Fred and George, who indeed snuck all the combs for a massive prank that turned everybody's hair into hideous colours, and after an explanation, Jacob's sibling managed to gain a good-looking comb.
After a practice duel, Merula became more hostile than ever towards Jacob's sibling. Ben speculated it was just her letting her feelings out, and suggested reading some of Rowan's notes to remind themselves of their purpose. Jae brought a lyre to Hog's Head, but its strings were broken. Knowing that Kirley could play string instruments, Jae brought it to him to fix it while Jacob's sibling and Merula considered who to bring to the Sunken Vault with them. Merula thought Ben was a good idea, and Ben immediately showed his willingness. They also recruited Barnaby to be their lookout for R, and Jacob to be with them in the adventure.
The Merpeople cheering for Jacob's sibling's team's song
Jacob's sibling, Merula, Ben and Jacob went to the Merpeople village in the Black Lake and presented the lyre, the comb, and the necklace to the Merqueen. After approving of those, the Merqueen also asked them to sing a song. They picked a song that was famous among them and sang together, and when they finished, the Merqueen and the other Merpeople applauded. This winned the Merqueen's consent to guide them to the Sunken Vault.
Jacob's sibling's team fighting Grindylows outside the fortress in which the Sunken Vault was located
She led them to the front of a stone fortress with no entrance where Jacob's sibling had spotted the trident on their previous visit. Knowing that the Sunken Vault must have been in there, they casted the Gouging Spell to make an opening, and a great many of angered Grindylows swarmed through. After the team defeated them, they entered the fortress and spotted the mouth of a statue of a Giant Squid what might be the way to the Vault. They casted some more spells to remove the rock in front of the Vault and entered.
Jacob's sibling reliving their worst memories in the Sunken Vault
It was essentially no different than any other Vault, with a glowing centre column and no visible treasures. When Jacob's sibling touched the column, the surroundings blackened, and they were stuck in a loop in which they relived the worst of their memories, including Merula's hostility, the gruelling encounter with Rakepick in the Buried Vault, and Rowan's death. The real Merula dragged them out of the loop, and they found out the others had also experienced similarly.
Jacob's sibling and Rakepick duelling
Realising the true purpose of the Cursed Vaults might not have been waiting for someone to come in, but keeping insidious curses from coming out instead, the team decided to reseal the Sunken Vault. At the moment, having bypassed Barnaby's sentry, Rakepick showed up and promptly struck down the other three. Jacob's sibling had a intense duel with Rakepick and ultimately defeated her, before resealing the Vault and returning to the castle with the others to report to Dumbledore.
Jacob's sibling recalled the experience with Dumbledore, who thought Hogwarts owed them a debt and considered them a hero. Jacob told them they got to be a normal student again, something which he couldn't get now. They met Moody too and thought they still hadn't gained much clues of R and its mole inside Hogwarts. Talbott discovered a letter to Jacob's sibling in the Owlery, and they discovered it was the letter Ben had written before they had entered the Buried Vault. In it, he had written about their friendship and expressed how much he had admired them. They then invited all their friends to Hog's Head and thanked every one of them.
Having been reminded by Jacob and Moody that life at Hogwarts could be exciting and wonderful, Jacob's sibling decided to throw a party to celebrate. Alanza suggested they choose Three Broomsticks for the venue, but Madam Rosmerta didn't welcome the idea as her barmaid was ill in addition to all of the patrons, so Penny wanted to help her with her business, and they eventually acquired Rosmerta's consent. Jacob's sibling found Fred and George in Zonko's Joke Shop, who sneaked to Hogsmeade with the help of the Marauder's Map, and asked for pranking advices. They even invited the Weird Sisters to perform some music, and discovered they were writing a song about their heroic acts and needed more information of them, so they helped with the lyrics.
Jacob's sibling enjoying the party with their friends
Jacob's sibling went to the party and saw Hagrid and Professors Dumbledore, McGonagall and Snape attending, who were all happy to see them returning to normal life. Alanza then revealed she would be staying at Hogwarts for the next school year. Jacob's sibling and their friends enjoyed the party with decorations, Butterbeer and music. Later, Jae told them he had gotten a message from Mundungus Fletcher.
Jacob's sibling went to Diagon Alley with Jae and met Fletcher and Ollivander. Ollivander told them a young Dark witch with dark clothes and wide-brimmed hat with feathers had recently come in to ask about the specifications of Jacob's sibling's wand and said something about a white-robed wizard. Then Madam Villanelle recalled the Dark witch talking out loud about the wand and had almost knocked over a book display in Flourish and Blotts. She had also talked about books and subjects they and Jacob were interested in.
Merula and the Dark witch (in a different look) having a secret meeting
Knowing who she might have been, Jacob's sibling went to Hog's Head and saw the Dark witch they had seen multiple times in Knockturn Alley. They eavesdropped on her and found out she was about to meet someone, possibly the Hogwarts mole, so later on, they brought their Invisibility Cloak and went to Knockturn Alley, where they were shocked to see Merula come and say she was ready to join R. The Dark witch transformed into a different look and Disapparated with her.
At the start of the 1990–1991 school year, Jacob's sibling reunited with their friends in the Great Hall. Before the Start-of-Term Feast, Professor Dumbledore announced that seventh-year students would have the opportunity to explore various wizarding professions off the school grounds.
Jacob's sibling gathered the Circle of Khanna, but the others were more interested in feeling unburdened and leading a normal life. They then met Jacob in the Hog's Head Inn, but before they could speak, Alastor Moody sat down beside them. They then told the two about what they had seen at the end of the last school year, and expressed some negative feelings about it. Moody suggested talking to someone they didn't know at Hogwarts since their acquaintances weren't very supportive.
Jacob's sibling went to History of Magic class, and Tulip introduced Corey Hayden to them, who were talking to a crowd about today's lesson on Emeric the Evil. After Corey's lecture, Jacob's sibling discussed Emeric the Evil further with them. Just then, Merula showed up. Later, she spoke to them about her summer of spell-training and used the Knockback Jinx on them wandlessly. She then invited them to a wandless duel. Wanting to study about wandless magic, Jacob's sibling went to the Library but was forbidden to enter the Restricted Section where all the books about wandless magic resided. Corey came by, and after telling them the history of wandless magic, they used the Exploding Charm in the Library, giving Madam Pince reason to send them to the kitchens for detention, where house-elves, users of wandless magic, work.
Jacob's sibling losing a wandless duel to Merula Snyde
They tried to let Pitts teach them, but it didn't went good. They then summoned Jacob and learned more, but their Banishing Charm was still very feeble. The time of duelling Merula had come, and Jacob's sibling suffered a big loss. She decided to teach them wandless magic to bring them to the same skill level as her, and said just like each person's wand was different, wandless magic worked for every person differently too. Jacob's sibling then cast a mildly powerful Knockback Jinx when they were focusing on things that made them feel at home.
After Merula left, Corey revealed they knew something was off with Merula. They later explained that they came to the conclusion by observing Jacob's sibling's behaviour in their interactions with them and Merula. Corey decided they wanted to team up with Jacob's sibling in solving the mystery, so Jacob's sibling told them about Merula's resolve in joining R.
Jacob's sibling attended Professor Arif Sikander's Muggle Studies class with Corey while spying on Merula. During the whole lesson, Merula was taking notes, but at the end turned it into a black quill that looked like R's, and secretly passed it to Ismelda. They followed Ismelda to the Owlery, and after she left, they searched for the quill with Talbott, Untransfigured it and read that there would be a meeting in the Artefact Room after supper.
They put on their Invisibility Cloak and waited with Corey outside the room, while Corey told detective stories and analysed that the guilty wasn't necessarily the first suspect. They then saw Merula heading to the Artefact Room with a figure in a black cloak, but before they could get close enough, Filch stopped them and made them turn around. When Filch was finally gone, they headed to the Artefact Room and caught Merula and Badeea in it. They explained that Badeea was only Merula's Charms tutor and had been secretly helping her due to it being "humiliating". The next day, Jacob's sibling and Corey reviewed the information they had so far.
Dumbledore gathered several students, including Jacob's sibling and assigned them a mission of visiting to the Ministry of Magic, specifically the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. After expanding their knowledge base of the Ministry by talking to Charlie, they acquired some Floo Powder from the professors. Meanwhile, Corey invited Beatrice to talk to Jacob's sibling about Merula, during which she said Merula had been going to the Whomping Willow and always came back in a bad mood. Before going to the Ministry, Moody caught Jacob's sibling in time and warned them of possible agents of R inside the Ministry and that he had his own contacts there.
Jacob's sibling stopped by Eric Munch when Arthur and Bill Weasley passed by
Arriving at the Ministry, Jacob's sibling was checked by Eric Munch with a Probity Probe and dismissed when he heard they had no credentials. They explained themselves but it didn't help, and just as they were about to be forced to leave, they met Arthur and Bill Weasley, who vouched for them, gaining Jacob's sibling the consent to enter. Arthur then guided them to the All-Purpose Room where they met Amos Diggory, who was alone in the room, appeared to be amnesiac over recent events and rather grumpy. After giving some reminder to him, Jacob's sibling learned he was no longer in charge of the student programme and was asked to go to Office 34B.
Jacob's sibling encountering Dolores Umbridge in Office 34B
They went to the office and found it was covered in pink and cat-related stuff with nobody in it. Dolores Umbridge then appeared and heckled them about their presence in her office. After Umbridge learned Jacob's sibling's name, she immediately turned friendly and thought they would like to meet Wilkie Twycross in the All-Purpose Room. Now the room was filled with people and Jacob's sibling met Twycross, who gave them a visitor badge as their credentials, taught the Rules of Conduct for Students Visiting the Ministry of Magic to them, and explained that Moody had requested that they go to the Auror Office along with another student, instead of the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office which was the choice under normal circumstances.
Jacob's sibling went to the Auror Office and discovered the other student was Tonks. They practised duelling to burn off Tonks's extra energy, before Moody came in and told them to start their tasks. They then went to an office to receive their first task, which was learning about Hogwarts as much as they could. After completing it by returning to Hogwarts and investigating, they went back to the Ministry to report to Moody that everything in Hogwarts was perfectly normal.
The second task was about a rogue alchemist who claimed to have invented a panacea, causing boils on its victims. Jacob's sibling interviewed a witness who bought the dodgy panacea, tracked the alchemist with Tonks, researched, experimented with alchemy and discussed with Dumbledore about it. Later, Moody told them he had caught the alchemist thanks to their help, and the panacea had in fact been made from corn starch and lard.
Jacob's sibling, Ben and Reginald observing the hurricane windows
After helping Eric Munch registering wands, Jacob's sibling and Tonks went to see Arthur Weasley who taught them things about Portkeys to them in the Portkey Office. Due to malfunctioning enchanted windows which display a hurricane, Arthur could not continue his speech and tasked them to fix them. On the way to the Magical Maintenance Department, they met Ben, Barnaby, Charlie and Liz in front of the lifts, and Barnaby brought up his uncle Cecil who had helped the Magical Maintenance Department before. Jacob's sibling went with Barnaby to talk to him, but he demanded them to duel each other first to see if they had the potential to join the Werewolf Capture Unit. After the duel, they learnt that only the windows in the Portkey Office were acting strange, which had not been the case before in which all of the windows were broken. When passing by the All-Purpose Room, they saw the hurricane windows had spread to it as well, and everyone was not able to work. Reginald Cattermole, an employee from the Magical Maintenance Department, joined their conversation about it and said this window was the "master window" which controlled all the enchanted windows in the Ministry. After considering it for a while, Jacob's sibling and Ben thought the windows might have been cursed by a complicated spellwork.
Jacob's sibling now called it the "enchanted windows mystery" and reported to Moody with Tonks, suspecting it might have been a work of R, though without solid evidence. Moody encouraged them to use their curse-breaking and detective skills to find out the truth, so they talked to Munch and read his documents, during which they noticed Reg had come in twice this morning without Munch having seen him leaving in-between. Reg himself denied this immediately and three others confirmed his continuous presence. However, Jacob's sibling found his wand under a desk, one which Mafalda Hopkirk usually sat instead of him. Connecting the dots, Jacob's sibling deduced a fake Reg may have stolen the real Reg's wand to curse the enchanted windows and blame Reg.
Jacob's sibling and Ben releasing Tonks from a locked chest
They discussed this with Ben and landed their guesses on the intruder either taking Polyjuice Potion or being a Metamorphmagus. Just then, Tonks left in a rush to supposedly see Wilkie Twycross, and Jacob's sibling and Ben discovered a bouncing locked chest. They unlocked the chest and saw another Tonks in it, then realised the Tonks they had been working with was an imposter, so they tried but failed to chase them down. The last memory that Tonks had was her stopping in the Auror Office for her quill and notepad when heading to the Magical Maintenance Department, and a man like a weasel (probably the fake Reg before becoming Tonks) coming in after her. They thought since they had been discovered while assuming both identities, they were now disguising as someone else. An Arthur Weasley approached them, and after he was confirmed to be really him, he told them a suspicious Amos Diggory had left the Portkey Office shortly before he had arrived and seen the windows, displaying the same rudeness and amnesia that Jacob's sibling themselves had seen when talking to him.
Amos came into the All-Purpose Room, in which he usually rested around that time, shortly after them and acted like the real Amos. When he heard there may have been an imposter, he questioned Jacob's sibling instead about his son Cedric to confirm their identity. Afterwards, when Jacob's sibling asked whether he had been in the Portkey Office, he said he had been helping the Pest Advisory Board with one of their albino bloodhounds instead, and that this was the first time he talked to them this day. This could mean nothing besides the imposter having been disguised as Amos.
In order to further investigate the enchanted windows curse, Jacob's sibling returned to Hogwarts and consulted Professor Flitwick. They also brought Reg's wand for him to examine. Meanwhile, they reunited with Corey and were informed that Merula had been visiting the Whomping Willow increasingly. When Jacob's sibling told Corey about the Metamorphmagus, Corey suspected the Dark witch from Knockturn Alley due to her previous transformation. Then, Merula showed up and called Jacob's sibling a "Janitor" for the maintenance work she thought they had been doing. Jacob's sibling wondered whether someone at the Ministry told her that, but Merula refused to divulge what she had been up to.
Jacob's sibling received Flitwick's owl and visited him again, who told them the curse had been the Atmospheric Charm. They then reviewed Meteolojinx Recanto which should act as a counter-spell. Going back to the Ministry, they successfully restored the windows using the spell. Alastor Moody also asked to see them and said the ensuing chaos had allowed someone to slip in unseen and steal a Portkey in the form of a sock.
Jacob's sibling and friends uniting in the Beast Division
Jacob's sibling and Tonks gave Moody a formal debrief and received a visit from Wilkie Twycross, who announced that Jacob's sibling would be going to the Beast Division in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures at Amos Diggory's invitation. There, they met Barnaby, Charlie and Liz who were assigned to the same division, and listened to Amos's lecture about it. He asked Jacob's sibling and Liz to investigate an odd creature sighting in Hogsmeade.
Jacob's sibling questioning Dolores Umbridge about the creature attack
They went to the Hogsmeade station platform and saw Dolores Umbridge who looked like injured with a claw mark and said to have been attacked by an unknown creature on her way to Madam Puddifoot's but not remember anything except the falling. When Jacob's sibling speculated she might have been attacked by a big cat, she turned angry and refused help from a "child". Then, Madam Puddifoot came in and informed them that a Hogwarts student had been found near Zonko's with large scratches earlier that day and too couldn't have seemed to recall how exactly she had gotten there.
Jacob's sibling and Liz visiting Ismelda in the Hospital Wing
They rushed to the Hospital Wing and found out the student to be Ismelda, who bore a similar mark. She recounted heading to the Three Broomsticks and seeing some big yellow eyes, but before Jacob's sibling could ask for more, Merula, who was keeping Ismelda company, said she needed to rest and made them leave. After researching in the Library, Jacob's sibling thought it might've been a Wampus cat which was native to North America and had yellow eyes which had powers of hypnosis and legilimency. After Liz left to read some more, Corey caught Jacob's sibling up with her recent investigations.
Jacob's sibling clashing with Tim
Returning to the Ministry, Jacob's sibling gave their report to Amos, who believed the situation was worth looking further into. He instructed them and Charlie, who returned from Niffler-related tasks, to study the Ministry accident reports, in which they saw a lot of mentions of Professor Kettleburn, so they consulted him and got his suggestion of using a Niffler as bait after practising catching Kneazles as a warm-up. After they formed their plan with Liz, Charlie placed a Golden Snitch in Hagrid's Garden and it naturally attracted a Niffler. Jacob's sibling attempted to hit it with the Stunning Spell, but it jumped out of the way, causing them some troubles to capture it. After it was successfully Stunned, they brought it to Hogsmeade station and it lured out the Wampus cat. Jacob's sibling had a brief fight with him, and after he knocked their wand out of their hand, they Stunned him wandlessly. When they came close to secure him, they noticed what looked like the sock Portkey near him. Liz also named him Tim.
Jacob's sibling and Liz delivering Tim to Kettleburn
Afterwards, Jacob's sibling talked to Moody about this assignment and the sock, which Moody confirmed was the missing Portkey and thought might have been another distraction. He proposed that Jacob's sibling focus on Merula and his assignments while he work on R. Jacob's sibling then headed to the Department of Magical Creature Regulation and celebrated with their friends and Amos and delivered Tim to Professor Kettleburn who had decided to care for him. They then talked with Merula, during which they voiced their suspicion of her, in particular, her constant change of tone and manners. Merula responded by saying she was still trying to figure out what kind of person she wanted to be. Before the conversation could reach a natural ending, Ben picked up Jacob's sibling and went see Twycross, who informed them of their new positions.
Xeep Meet-and-Greet
Moody greeted Jacob's sibling and Ben at the Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes while the Head of Department was unavailable, and intended them to interview Garrick Ollivander about a backfired wand as the first task. Ollivander originally acknowledged the existence of a misfiring wand, but later claimed to not remember such wand at all, and wanted to leave and meet Zenith Xeep, a renowned opera diva in the wizarding world, so Jacob's sibling offered to come with him. They met Zenith and Rita Skeeter in the Leaky Cauldron and heard about Zenith's new beauty-and-lifestyle business, Xeep, and its product, Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, which Ollivander had been using for a week and spoke highly of. Jacob's sibling was gifted a bottle of it, and then returned to Ollivanders with Ben.
Jacob's sibling and Ben with the fake wand
Ollivander remembered having the wand again, and they found a suspicious wand, which he determined to be a fake, leading them to believe the real one had been stolen. He recalled having amnesiac symptoms for a week and found Madam Villanelle to have visited his shop during this time according to his ledger. When they visited her, she was oblivious of her visit as well, but was immediately reminded of the backfired wand when Jacob's sibling mentioned it. Both Ollivander and Villanelle had been using Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution when their memory problems occurred, which they doubted was a coincidence.
Back at the Ministry, Moody informed Jacob's sibling and Ben Obliviators had been sent to restore Ollivander and Villanelle's memories (but they were not successful), and that the Ministry had been confiscating Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, which might've been the reason Zenith was hiding. Moody tasked them to restore the two's memories themselves, and since Jacob's sibling still had a vial of the Solution with them, they found Penny, and then Professor Snape, and had them examine it. Snape identified the Forgetfulness Potion to be a base of this complex Solution and was willing to brew a counter-serum for them. Meanwhile, Jacob's sibling practised wandless magic with Ben and went through an interview with Rita, who demanded them find out what the Ministry was planning by breaking into Umbridge's office before she could tell them where Zenith was.
Dungbomb setting off in Office 34B
Jacob's sibling and Ben talked about setting up distractions for Umbridge, and Ben came up with the idea of pretending to do office checks as an assignment of the Magical Maintenance Department. Jacob's sibling asked Tulip to meet in Zonko's and she helped them choose a Dungbomb. When they went to Office 34B and met Umbridge, she wanted to have tea with them right away, and when they prepared to place the Dungbomb, she noticed, but they explained it away. When she pressed them about the treasures in the final Cursed Vault, the Dungbomb set off and Umbridge blamed Ludo Bagman, leaving the room. Jacob's sibling searched the office and found a paper about a Wizengamot trial.
Jacob's sibling duelling Zenith Xeep
They talked to Rita and she told them to find Zenith in Knockturn Alley, where they then saw Zenith meeting with a Dark witch, originally disguised as Wilkie Twycross. Ben couldn't wait and jumped out when Zenith was about to hand over the wand she had stolen, and the Dark witch used the Stunning Spell on him. Jacob's sibling came out too, the Dark witch Disapparated, and they duelled Zenith. After they won, Zenith drank a bottle of Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, making herself forget what had happened, thus preventing Jacob's sibling from knowing. However, she also forgot her name.
Victims drinking the counter-serum
Back at the Ministry, Moody questioned Jacob's sibling about disobeying his order of not pursuing this case before consulting with him, and then asked them about their confrontation with Zenith. They discussed the Dark witch, who Moody believed was a high-ranking member of R. Jacob's sibling then checked in with Professor Snape and Penny and helped them finish brewing the counter-serum. They went to Ollivanders and offered the victims the counter-serum, which seemed to have taken effect.
Jacob's sibling speaking with Cornelius Fudge
Jacob's sibling met with Corey in Three Broomsticks and talked about the phoenix feather wand and Merula. Corey told them about the note (transfigured as a quill) she had intercepted from Merula, which said that she wouldn't put her friends in danger again. Alastor Moody then showed up and brought Jacob's sibling to see Cornelius Fudge, who spoke to them about the upcoming Wizengamot trial of the white-robed wizard, which they, Jacob and Merula would be required to testify. Jacob's sibling was worried how everyone would react if the wizard would say R wanted to recruit them.
Jacob's sibling talking to Corey beside Victor Ketsueki
As the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, Professor Dumbledore spoke to Jacob's sibling about the trial and reminded them of the gravity of the situation. They talked to Merula thereafter, who stormed off upon hearing some friendship speech involving Ismelda from them. They also spoke to Corey about her and noticed Victor Ketsueki, a Ravenclaw student in their year, talking to a bunch of students.
Jacob's sibling Untransfiguring R's quill
Jacob's sibling and Corey went to the Whomping Willow and found another note which warned the receiver not to cross "us". It suggested that Merula may not have been completely on R's side. Just as they Untransfigured it back to a black quill, Merula arrived and confronted them, but they fobbed her off and soon left. The two then discussed the note and Merula in the Artefact Room, and thought it would be a good idea to ask Merula to become a double agent. Suddenly, a Doxy flew out and bit Corey.
The students with a Bundimun in Hagrid's Garden
When Jacob's sibling visited Corey in the Hospital Wing, they heard from Madam Pomfrey that many students suffered Doxy bites, indicating a Doxy infestation. They visited Professor Kettleburn and learnt more about Doxies with Chiara while feeding Fire Crabs, and then went to the Herbology Classroom to collect ingredients for Doxycide with Professor Sprout and Barnaby, who believed he was the cause of the infestation. Due to a lack of Bundimun Ooze, they looked for some Bundimuns in Hagrid's Garden and captured one using the Stunning Spell. With all of the ingredients, Jacob's sibling completed brewing some Doxycide with Ben in the Potions Classroom. Chiara then alerted them to Doxies showing up in Peeves' Room.
Jacob's sibling, Chiara and Victor surrounded by Doxy eggs in the kitchens
The room was a total mess, but they still hoped to find the Doxies, maybe even the Doxy Queen. After some searching, Chiara heard something which turned out to be a bunch of Doxies, which Jacob's sibling cast the Knockback Jinx to banish. The swarm continued to grow, but before it would get out of hand, Victor Ketsueki arrived and blasted the Doxies with the Exploding Charm. They didn't expect him to be here, but Victor didn't intend to answer their questions and noted a sandwich in the room instead. It looked like one of Jae's detention sandwiches, which would mean the Doxies had spent time in the kitchens. The three went there and found Pitts stuck among piles of Doxy eggs, and soon the Doxy Queen appeared with other Doxies. They managed to save Pitts while holding them back, and Jacob's sibling cast the Knockback Jinx on the Doxy Queen, but she flew away before they had the chance to use the Doxycide on her.
Jacob's sibling preparing to douse the Doxy Queen in Doxycide
They tracked her down to the Prefects' Bathroom, and Jacob's sibling attempted to douse the Doxy Queen in the Doxycide, but missed and the Doxycide landed on the floor without touching her. They then had the idea of using the Knockback Jinx to push the Doxy Queen into the potion, which worked and the Doxy Queen was stunned. Victor was curious about whether Jacob's sibling was doing these good deeds out of some ulterior motives, but they replied that ultimately, they did this for their friends.
Jacob's sibling and the recovered Corey in the Hospital Wing
Jacob's sibling then returned to the Hospital Wing to visit Corey, who by now had recovered and already learnt about their defeat of the Doxy Queen, acknowledging they had heard from Cedric, who in turn heard from Victor. After some chatting, the two helped Madam Pomfrey administer the antidote to the remaining Doxy victims. They wanted to thank Victor for his bravery, and found him in the Great Hall recounting his supposedly far worse experience in the "seedy underbelly of Paris" and also mentioning Jacob's sibling's contributions in their recent adventure. Victor greeted them with their names, which surprised Corey. Jacob's sibling offered him their gratitude, and thought they could talk with him to know him better. When being asked about his presence in Peeves' Room, Victor said he had been friends with Peeves a long time, before he became a vampire. He pointed out he had to be more selective since many people wanted to be friends with him, and decided to give Jacob's sibling and Corey's friendship offer a chance. Later on, Jacob's sibling was called into Dumbledore's office and was informed by the Headmaster that they and Chiara were presented with the opportunity of internship at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries.
Madam Strout greeting the students
In the reception area at St Mungo's, Jacob's sibling united with their friends and talked about their feelings and anticipation of the school project. Talbott was calmer than the others, and explained that it reminded him of his mother who had been a Healer there. Shortly thereafter, Madam Miriam Strout approached the group and welcomed them to the hospital, introducing herself as their supervisor. She gave them a brief history of St Mungo's, and Jacob's sibling excitedly asked for their first assignment, which was organising the Potions Cabinet in the Alchemy Room to become familiar with the potions.
Hagrid being given a Pumpkin Pasty by the students
They worked with a newly admitted patient to hone their bedside manners, and Jacob's sibling's patient turned out to be none other than Rubeus Hagrid, who had been bitten by an Acromantula. They listened to his story about being bitten while talking to the Acromantulas, and decided to find him a Pumpkin Pasty when he mentioned his enjoyment of it. They returned to the reception area and found Jae (whose patient remained asleep) and Chiara (who was also looking for a treat for her patient). They approached the Healer who ran the tea cart to ask for a Pumpkin Pasty, but were told the last one had just been given out to a person who sounded like Bilton Bilmes, so they wanted to find him in hopes of convincing him to relinquish the pasty. In the Hospital Ward, Jacob's sibling and Jae found Bilmes who had been bitten by a defective Nose-Biting Teacup, and after having a conversation with him, he agreed to let Hagrid have the pasty. They returned to Hagrid's room and noticed Penny there who was checking on Hagrid. They gave the pasty to Hagrid, who ate it but didn't feel better, since it reminded him too much of Fang who was all alone at the moment. They then had an idea of bringing Fang to him.
Jacob's sibling helping Madam Strout brew Wiggenweld Potion
They found Madam Strout in the Alchemy Room and asked to speak with her. She seemed distracted, but came to realise Jacob's sibling's presence a moment later, and said she needed to finish brewing some potions first, so they helped her with it. After the potions were completed, Jacob's sibling brought up the thought of bringing Fang to the hospital, but Madam Strout didn't approve of it since animals weren't allowed in. Later, Jae approached them and suggested sneaking Fang in without anyone knowing. Jacob's sibling thought it was viable and went to talk to Talbott to find the best way to do so. The two, along with Penny, eventually came up with the idea of pretending Fang was a wizard who had failed in his attempt of Human Transfiguration, and sorted out the details including dressing Fang up in wizard clothes and the location where they would've found the wizard.
The dressed-up Fang brought to Hagrid's side
Returning to Hogwarts, they found Fang in Hagrid's Hut with Corey and said they needed to wait for one more person, so while they were waiting, Corey and they discussed Merula. When the other person, Andre, came, he helped them dress Fang up. They brought him to the hospital, where they rejoined Jae, but were blocked by the Welcome Witch and had to answer her questions to proceed. They then led him to Hagrid's room, and Hagrid was very glad to see him. They played with him while Hagrid told them about his stay at the hospital. They and Hagrid also helped Jae see that he too had the potential of making people feel better, as evidenced by this whole experience. Jacob's sibling later checked in with Madam Strout about their progress at St Mungo's, and Strout commended them for having truly made their patient feel at home. Suddenly, Chiara rushed in and told them their brother Jacob had suffered severe injuries and just been admitted to here.
Jacob's sibling and Chiara went to the Hospital Ward and examined Jacob's wounds with Madam Strout. They seemed to be dragon burns, and since Jacob kept muttering about Chinese Fireballs and dragon claws, Jacob's sibling thought he had been attacked by a dragon, but Madam Strout encouraged them to look further into the incident since the wounds were not usual. While Chiara was looking into dragon burns, Jacob's sibling visited Alastor Moody at the Ministry hoping to find information on Jacob's latest mission, but Moody said Jacob had intentionally kept him in the dark. He wondered whether Jacob's injuries were due to an attempt to prevent him from testifying at the Wizengamot trial, and the two talked a bit about whether Merula could be flipped to their side. To focus on their current business, however, Moody suggested talking to Mundungus Fletcher who should've been in frequent contact with Jacob.
Jacob's sibling brought Corey as their accompany to the Knockturn Alley to find Mundungus. They spotted him outside Borgin and Burkes selling something suspicious, and when he was done, they approached him, and Jacob's sibling beat him in a duel in order to convince him to talk about Jacob. He told them Jacob was close to finding an artefact that R had also been after for ages, but didn't think he had gone up against a dragon, since he refused to accept the Fire Protection Potion that Mundungus was selling. When he was about to go back to selling his potions, Corey asked about them, and Mundungus said he had some Baruffio's Brain Elixir made with genuine dragon claws, which reminded Jacob's sibling that the dragon claws that their brother had mentioned could've been intended for brewing potions. They went back to St Mungo's to find Penny to talk about dragon claws, and found out that powdered dragon claws had a brain-boosting effect, but whether Chinese Fireball claws were special among other dragon claws was unknown. Talbott showed up at this moment and asked Jacob's sibling to check in on their brother, who was getting worse without getting any help from the Burn-Healing Paste. They tried talking to Jacob and heard him say the word "Ryu", which they and Madam Strout were both unfamiliar with. They decided to find out the meaning of the word to help Jacob.
Chiara, on the other hand, consulted Charlie when researching dragon burns, and when the two met up with Jacob's sibling, he told them confidently that the wounds were not dragon burns, for there were not enough scorch marks. Charlie's best guess was that the wounds were caused by a spell that he hadn't ever encountered. Jacob's sibling let them know about Jacob's muttering of "Ryu", and Charlie was fairly sure he had seen it in his dragon books. He noticed that "Ryu" started with "R", and was very surprised when he heard from Jacob's sibling that R was still active. He gave Jacob's sibling the idea of talking to someone in R, which they did by finding and having a conversation with Merula back at Hogwarts. She suggested looking around in the Restricted Section of the Library.
Madam Pince hiccoughing after eating Hiccough Sweets
To get there without being blocked by Madam Pince, Jacob's sibling went to Jae for ideas of distraction, and also happened to find Bilton Bilmes who Jae was tending at St Mungo's. They came up with the idea of giving Madam Pince Hiccough Sweets, but needed someone that she would trust to give it to her, so they thought of Mr Filch and recalled his enjoyment with Madam Pince at the Valentine's Day Ball. Jacob's sibling also found Liz in the Library and asked her to help with their plan of getting the Hiccough Sweets confiscated by Filch and convincing him to give them to Pince. When Filch came and noticed the sweets, Liz said they were for Madam Pince to thank her for her work in the Library, and when Filch was convinced that they meant no harm, he grabbed the sweets and gave them to Pince, who ate one and left while hiccoughing.
The students then entered the Restricted Section without being stopped, and they tried searching for "Ryu" in the books, but didn't find anything. Liz then suggested looking for "rare fire burns" for a change and brought out a book with a symbol of fire on the cover. The book turned out to be about the history of Mahoutokoro, and Jacob's sibling found the name of Dai Ryusaki in it, who was a professor at the school and created a powerful weapon, but was stopped before it could be used. The nature of the weapon, however, was not specified, and the information was said to have died with the creator. Jacob's sibling thought of talking to Corey about this to find out more.
They found Corey in the Courtyard back at Hogwarts and explained everything since their last meeting. Corey said excitedly that the legend of Dai Ryusaki and the Dark Scroll was one of their favourite tales - Ryusaki created a mind-enhancing potion so powerful that it was deemed dangerous and led to the arrest of Ryusaki, but before it happened, rumour had it that he had hidden a Dark Scroll with the ingredients of the potion, but no one knew for sure if the scroll existed and what its contents might have been. Jacob's sibling deduced that their brother might have found the scroll and been hurt by a protection spell on it, and decided to find Professor Dumbledore to learn more about the spell. Dumbledore told them it could've been Protego Diabolica, a very powerful dark charm that created a circle of black fire that harmed the enemies of the caster, and the favourite spell of the current Headmaster of Mahoutokoro. Jacob's sibling asked if Dumbledore believed the tale of Ryusaki, and he thought it might have sprung from a seed a truth and advised them to return to St Mungo's with the knowledge they had learnt so far.
Back at St Mungo's, Jacob's sibling informed Madam Strout of the Protego Diabolica spell, and she was able to adjust her treatment accordingly. They talked with Chiara about their worries about the situation, and also went to the Three Broomsticks Inn, where Chiara had gathered the Circle of Khanna to update them on recent whereabouts of Jacob and R and offer Jacob's sibling emotional support. After enjoying some relaxation with their friends, Chiara got words from St Mungo's that Jacob had gained consciousness and wanted to speak to them right away, so they returned to St Mungo's and listened to him telling the stories of his adventure. Jacob's sibling learnt that their brother had indeed found the Dark Scroll, but it had been ripped in half, and the other half was not to be found. He had only been able to decipher one of the ingredients, which was Chinese Fireball claws. Now that he was conscious again, Jacob was eager to find the other half of the scroll, but his sibling refused to let that happen and reminded him of the imminent Wizengamot trial, before which he needed to get proper rest.
Madam Strout talking to Jacob's sibling in the Janus Thickey Ward
Jacob's sibling united with their friends in the Alchemy Room and talked about the Wizengamot trial and their experiences at St Mungo's, during which they noticed Talbott was unusually quiet. Madam Strout then walked in and announced their next assignment, which was tending to patients in the Janus Thickey Ward where long-term patients resided. Jacob's sibling was surprised to see the decoration in the ward, and even more so when they realised the patient they would be caring for was none other than Zenith Xeep. They explained to Madam Strout their history with Xeep, and the two talked about how being a Healer should often overcome ethical challenges such as caring for Dark witches and wizards. They also talked it out with Penny, mentioning their feeling of their past coming back to haunt them. Talbott came and said he had been feeling the same, as he thought his mum was haunting St Mungo's. He brought them to the Alchemy Room where no one else could listen in, and told them about his sighting of a ghostly swan and his belief of it being the ghost of his mum, who had been a White Swan Animagus. He also doubted if he had imagined it, and said he was a bit tired between the off-school grounds assignments and the feelings about his mum, but felt better after talking to them.
Jacob being visited by his sibling and Corey Hayden at St Mungo's
Jacob's sibling brought Corey to meet his brother and discussed R and the Dark Scroll together. They agreed that R had become aware of the true existence of the scroll at some point, and they had to keep their half of the scroll as far away as possible from the dark organisation. Jacob trusted his sibling to hold onto the scroll, but they couldn't take it due to their frequent encounters with agents of R, so they turned to Corey for hiding the scroll.
Zenith Xeep greeting Jacob's sibling
Jacob's sibling then went to the Janus Thickey Ward and tried to talk to Madam Xeep, who turned out to not have any memories of them beside that they had been there earlier with Madam Strout, and wanted to be friends with them. They carried on with her treatment, and when she felt better, she request them to ask her something from her past, but before she could answer, she had a headache, and when it passed, she lost her memory of being treated just moments ago.
The White Swan Patronus flying past the Janus Thickey Ward
Jacob's sibling wasn't expecting this reaction and decided to report to Madam Strout, but then saw the ghostly White Swan flying past the ward, which they recognised as a Patronus. They immediately went to Talbott in the Alchemy Room and told him the discovery. He was confused about the purpose of the Patronus, and suspected it taking his mother's Animagus form might not have been a coincidence, especially since they were close to the anniversary of his mother's death. The two students talked about it more, and took it upon themselves to find out what the Patronus was trying to protect.
Jacob, Penny and Madam Strout laughing uncontrollably
They went back to the ward, and though they didn't find any clues, they thought that the Patronus may have been protecting Xeep from R, since she might spill their secrets when her memories were restored. They found Jacob and asked about how far R would go to protect themselves, and the answer they got was frightening. Chiara then came and delivered a letter from Merula to Jacob's sibling, which asked them to meet her at Hogwarts and talk. However, upon meeting her, they found out she wanted to practise wandless magic. After she won a duel, she told them something big was about to happen at St Mungo's, and it was no laughing matter. Jacob's sibling also told her about the Patronus, which she appeared to be unfamiliar with. When they went back to Jacob's side, he suspected Merula may have been trying to keep them away from the hospital while R was working there. Madam Strout came and announced the discharge of Jacob, shortly before Jacob, Penny and Madam Strout all started laughing uncontrollably.
Unsure what to do, Jacob's sibling met with Alastor Moody at the Ministry and informed him of the situation. Moody suggested if R had infiltrated St Mungo's, they may have been after Zenith Xeep, so Jacob's sibling thought about restoring Xeep's memories to obtain information about her time working for the organisation. They also talked about R's motivation to stop Jacob, due to the capability of his testimony at the Wizengamot trial. Moody suspected the laughter could've been caused by the Alihotsy Draught and instructed Jacob's sibling to find out what their brother had drunk last.
Back at St Mungo's, they asked for Chiara's help in searching the Hospital Ward, and with their combined efforts, they found an empty bottle of Pumpkin juice which Jacob did always enjoy. Jacob's sibling returned to Hogwarts and asked Professor Snape to check if the Pumpkin Juice had been laced with Alihotsy Draught. Meanwhile, Beatrice overheard their conversation about the laughing curse and was worried about her sister, so Jacob's sibling talked about it with her. They also went to the Courtyard to speak to Corey about their operation to flip Merula, and hesitated when Corey suggested it was time to confront her directly about her allegiance. Before they made the final decision, they were summoned by Professor Snape, who it turned out failed to detect Alihotsy Draught in the bottle. They grew anxious towards the result, but quickly calmed down when they were reminded of the consequence of snapping at the professor. Though being stern as always, Professor Snape also displayed his genuine care for them and advised them to be honest when testifying at the impending trial.
The swan Patronus pointing to a CD case
Back at St Mungo's, Jacob's sibling relayed the result to their friends, and they had another brainstorming session to determine the cause of the laughing curse. They concluded that a cursed object would make the most sense, and when they were wondering how to actually pin down the object, the swan Patronus flew in and pointed to a CD case on the table next to Jacob's bed. Jacob's sibling thought it was very likely that the CD case was the cursed object, since it was a get-well gift Penny had gotten from Madam Strout and dropped off for Jacob. Talbott reminded them not to touch the case directly to avoid the curse spreading, so Jacob's sibling decided to wrap it up and bring it to Professor Flitwick at Hogwarts to properly break the curse.
In the Charms Classroom, Jacob's sibling and Corey saw Professor Flitwick finishing his discussion with Merula about her assignment. Jacob's sibling thanked Merula for her advice, but she claimed she wasn't sure what they were talking about. Nevertheless, Merula expressed delight for their return to Hogwarts. After Merula left, Jacob's sibling and Corey showed the CD case to Flitwick and explained what they knew about the laughing curse. Flitwick believed he could break the curse, but needed to check his notes first. Meanwhile, Corey became worried that Merula might be on her way to tell R about their discovery of the CD case, and that her being nice earlier had just been to throw them off. This made Jacob's sibling determined to confront Merula about everything.
They found Merula beside the Whomping Willow transfiguring a note into a black quill and told her to stop. They then stated their belief of her being a member of R, to which Merula responded by casting a wandless Blasting Curse towards them. Jacob's sibling deflected it in time with a wandless Shield Charm and had a wandless duel with her. When it was over, Merula said her attack was because she thought Jacob's sibling was the Metamorphmagus from R, and wanted to talk to them elsewhere since she was afraid the Metamorphmagus might show up.
The two came down to the Potions Classroom where they had first met in their first year, and Merula confirmed and explained her decision of joining R, which was because she simply wanted to get more powerful so that she couldn't get hurt again. It was after she realised that becoming powerful at the cost of her friends was not worth it that she started to slip Jacob's sibling any information she could. They talked about Merula's message about leaving R that Jacob's sibling had discovered, and Merula said her latest message was about being done with R for good. Jacob's sibling then proposed that she stay in R as a double agent and help them to take down the organisation from the inside. Merula agreed to it and asked for forgiveness for what she had done in the past.
Corey then came and called Jacob's sibling back to see Professor Flitwick who had learned how to break the laughing curse. While they waited for him in the Charms Classroom, Corey asked eagerly about their confrontation with Merula, but Jacob's sibling hoped to talk about it later after the pressing matter at hand could be resolved. When Professor Flitwick came, he announced that the only way to lift the curse would be to destroy the CD case. The students helped him prepare for it, and Flitwick cast the Expulso Curse on the CD case, but it remained unharmed, while the professor also started laughing hysterically, apparently infected by the laughing curse. Corey realised the CD case must have had some secret protections on it that stopped it from being magically destroyed, and Jacob's sibling came up with the idea of visiting Professor Sikander to destroy it by Muggle means.
Professor Sikander turning on the microwave
They went to the Muggle Studies Classroom with Flitwick to meet with Sikander, who immediately noticed Flitwick's uncontrolled laughter. The students then explained the situation and asked for help. Sikander thought he could destroy the CD by scratching it with fingernails until it was unplayable, but upon learning it could not be touched, he suggested they look around the classroom to find another Muggle artefact to destroy it with. After some searching, they found a few artefacts, among which they chose the microwave, which had been magically modified to work on Hogwarts grounds. Jacob's sibling put the CD inside and Sikander turned the microwave on, and after a while, the CD was destroyed. The curse was broken and Flitwick stopped laughing, for which Jacob's sibling thanked Sikander. After the professors left for Madam Pomfrey, Jacob's sibling wondered whether the others were free of the curse, but first they needed to meet Merula to discuss their plans for gathering information about R.
Jacob's sibling and Corey meeting Merula in the Artefact Room
The students went to the Artefact Room to see Merula, and after some talking, Corey was still suspicious of her, but Jacob's sibling was willing to give her the benefit of the doubt, and convinced Corey to carry on with their operation. The three discussed obtaining information from R, and Merula thought they needed a means of communication that the organisation didn't know about. Jacob's sibling suggested making Corey their go-between, which was met with agreement.
Madam Strout gifting Talbott the St Mungo's Certified Healer Insignia
They then returned to St Mungo's to check on Jacob, who had stopped laughing and should be able to make the Wizengamot trial. Talbott was also there, and when the students mentioned the swan Patronus which had been protecting them at the hospital, Madam Strout revealed it was she who had cast it, as she had been very close with Talbott's mother, who used to roam the halls in her White Swan Animagus form before she was gone. Madam Strout also said Talbott reminded her very much of his mother in terms of his good qualities, and the group cherished their memories with friends and family together. Talbott was given his mother's St Mungo's Certified Healer Insignia, and Jacob's sibling asked if he had changed his career choice of becoming an Auror, to which he said yes, since the experience at the hospital made him realise he wanted to become a Healer like his mother. Madam Strout also commended Jacob's sibling for their efforts shown in the internship programme, acknowledging that they had a Healer's heart.
Jacob's sibling and Corey encountering Beatrice and Victor in the Courtyard
While the laughing curse had been lifted, the person responsible for putting it in place was still at large, so Jacob's sibling went to the Ministry to talk to Moody about it. They gave Moody their full report, and he was very satisfied with their work. Jacob's sibling wondered if it was the Metamorphmagus who sent their brother the cursed CD case, and Moody proceeded to checking with his contacts while Jacob's sibling went back to Hogwarts to meet with Corey at night to ask them to pass the question to Merula. They also mentioned that they wanted to use Legilimency on Zenith Xeep to investigate further. Corey was surprised to learn Jacob's sibling was a Legilimens, and they talked about it for a while. They also encountered Beatrice and Victor, who were supposedly "taking in the moonlight" and "contemplating the darkness", and had a brief conversation about the laughing curse.
Jacob's sibling preparing to perform Legilimency on Zenith Xeep
Back at St Mungo's, Jacob's sibling entered the Janus Thickey Ward where Madam Xeep was hospitalised, and encountered Chiara who was not positive about Xeep's ability to remember. Still, they proceeded to ask Xeep questions. When Jacob's sibling mentioned R, Xeep became upset but didn't say why. They then used Legilimency on her, and found out a Dark wizard and the word "Burke". They went to the Ministry and asked Moody about it, who thought of Caractacus Burke, an original founder of Borgin and Burkes. Moody decided to go to Knockturn Alley and investigate, and when Jacob's sibling offered to come with him, they were advised to focus on their St Mungo's assignments.
Jacob's sibling talking to Madam Strout
They went back and found Corey and Merula who brought information that an R member named Burke had infiltrated the hospital. They asked Madam Strout about him while helping her brew Wiggenweld Potion with Chiara, and she was shocked to know Burke's identity. She decided to talk to him, but suddenly remembered her meeting with the board which she must attend first and left. Chiara asked if it was Moody who told Jacob's sibling about Burke, and they didn't reveal the full details.
Burke drawing his wand
Jacob's sibling took it upon themself to confront Burke. They went to the Hospital Ward and found their brother gone for tests, and asked Talbott and Penny about Burke. Penny pointed them to him, who they recognised as the Healer who had left them and Talbott alone with Xeep when they visited her earlier. They then came up to Burke and asked him about the cursed CD case, and Burke seemed to have remained calm for a while before drawing his wand and preparing to duel.
The Dark witch from Knockturn Alley coming to rescue Burke
Jacob's sibling asked Penny and Talbott to protect the patients in the ward while the duel happened, and after Burke was defeated by them, he expressed his lament that Jacob's sibling couldn't understand what R was trying to do. The Dark witch from Knockturn Alley then Apparated and cast a spell towards Jacob's sibling who was knocked back. They demanded information from her, but she refused and Disapparated with Burke.
Moody and the siblings preparing to leave
Back at the Black Lake at Hogwarts, with Corey as their lookout, Jacob's sibling thanked Merula for helping them find Burke and asked her about the Dark witch. They learned that she was referred to as the Director and was a high-ranking member of R, and according to Merula, she didn't make mistakes. They reported this to Moody, who told them Jacob was being moved to a safe house to be kept safe until the Wizengamot trial. A while later, Jacob's sibling met their brother and Moody at St Mungo's and was told to Side-Along Apparate to the safe house. The siblings practised it for a few times in the ward, and before they were ready to go, Madam Strout announced that Jacob's sibling's assignment had come to an end.
Molly Weasley greeting the group at The Burrow
They Apparated to the safe house, which turned out to be The Burrow. Molly Weasley extended her welcome the group and Jacob's sibling remarked that the house looked as nice as it did when they visited last time for Christmas. While grateful, Jacob did not enjoy being sidelined from the action, and the siblings talked about it. They then were summoned to Dumbledore's office back at Hogwarts, where the Headmaster expressed his concern of Jacob's sibling being continually involved in altercations with R throughout what was supposed to be a simple school project, but also praised them for their abilities and performance, and suggested they reunite and expand the Circle of Khanna.
The meeting of the Circle of Khanna
Jacob's sibling called a meeting of the Circle in the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom and updated their fellow members on the events of the year. Corey officially joined the Circle, and when they were talking to Jacob's sibling about the Hospital Ward duel and their half of the Dark Scroll, Merula interrupted and said there was an unexpected issue. They brought their conversation to the Artefact Room and waited for Merula so that they could talk privately, but Merula surprised them by talking off her Invisibility Cloak and revealing she was already there. She said the reason for wearing the cloak was that she was feeling a bit paranoid, worried that R was tracking her every move. Regardless, she went on to talk about R wanting her to testify in favour of the white-robed-wizard, and the students naturally didn't want that to happen.
Chiara bringing Jacob's sibling a jar of fungus
Jacob's sibling thought of a plan and met Merula in the Hospital Wing, where they told her she could come down with a horrible illness, but she immediately rejected since she didn't realise that they only wanted her to pretend instead of actually getting the illness. After the misunderstanding was cleared up, Chiara came and brought Jacob's sibling the stuff they wanted - "something that causes a contagious illness", which was a jar of fungus that caused Scrofungulus. But since the symptoms of Scrofungulus (tentacles erupting across the neck and face) should be very obvious to see, Merula needed to actually look like a victim of the illness, so Jacob's sibling asked Ben to cast spells on her to simulate the symptoms. They talked about it on the Training Grounds and Ben decided to use the Pimple Jinx and the Jelly-Legs Curse, the combination of which he had used in duels and known the effects of. They cast the spells on Merula and successfully made her look like a victim of Scrofungulus.
Merula and Jacob's sibling approaching the adults
The trial would begin soon, so Jacob's sibling and Merula went to the Ministry and met Professor Dumbledore there as well as Madams Bones and Umbridge. Dumbledore noticed the tentacles on Merula's face, and Jacob's sibling explained it as an illness. While Umbridge started to accuse them of bringing someone contagious there, Dumbledore and Bones stayed patient and listened to their story, and when Merula showed them the jar of fungus, they were convinced and relieved Merula from testifying. Merula, Dumbledore and Bones left successively, but Umbridge called Jacob's sibling to her office to discuss courtroom procedures.
Jacob's sibling observing the cup of tea
After Jacob's sibling entered and sat down, Umbridge offered them a cup of tea, but they wanted to wait for it to cool down first, so she started their discussion of courtroom procedures. Jacob's sibling learned that everyone would have the chance to speak, including the accused, and that they and their brother would testify after him, which made them slightly anxious, but Umbridge assured them that the accused would be properly restrained. It's possible that Jacob's sibling drank the tea later on.
Jacob's sibling joining their brother and Corey in the courtroom
Leaving Umbridge's office, Jacob's sibling stepped into one of the Wizengamot courtrooms and sat next to their brother. They discovered that Jacob had brought Corey for moral support. The three talked a bit before Dumbledore gave his opening remarks as the Chief Warlock, during which they finally learned the name of the white-robed wizard - Kazuhiro Shiratori, who pleaded not guilty. After Shiratori finished giving his statement of the day of the attack, Jacob, his sibling and Corey talked about how wrong his version of the events was, but they noticed something strange in their conversation. It turned out that Jacob had drunk Umbridge's tea, which must've been spiked with Veritaserum so that the drinker could only tell the truth, and even be more forthcoming than usual about it. Realising that the testimony could not go on under the effects of Veritaserum, they decided to delay the trial.
The three meeting in the Ministry All-Purpose Room
Corey then asked loudly if there was a Doxy in the courtroom, which stirred up unease among the crowd. Dumbledore quieted them down and asked everyone to exit so that the Doxy threat could be investigated. While in the Ministry All-Purpose Room waiting for the Veritaserum to wear out, the siblings thanked Corey for their quick thinking that prevented secrets from being divulged, such as R's intention for Jacob's sibling to lead them and Merula's double agent identity, and also bonded with each other. When the potion's effects were over and lies could be uttered again, they wondered whether it was truly Umbridge who used the Veritaserum.
The siblings testifying
When the trial reconvened, they returned to the courtroom and prepared to testify. They talked much about Shiratori's membership of R and his violent actions, and when Jacob's sibling asserted that he had done nothing but trying to hurt them, Shiratori attempted to speak up, but was silenced by Dumbledore. After the testimonies finished, the students and Jacob left the courtroom while the Wizengamot was reaching a verdict. They went to Moody and talked about the experience with him, and Moody was very surprised to hear about Veritaserum. He agreed on their decision to not jeopardise the trial by talking about it, but noted that he would be looking into the incident.
The three hearing the results
They headed back to the courtroom when the Wizengamot had reached a verdict, and Jacob's sibling calmed their brother down when he was feeling nervous. They were happy to hear that Shiratori was found guilty of all charges and given a life sentence in Azkaban, which Dumbledore declared would be the fate of every other member of R. With the trial having ended, Jacob called for a celebration.
Party at Three Broomsticks
Jacob's sibling then headed to the Three Broomsticks Inn and celebrated with members of the Circle of Khanna. They talked about their progress in fighting R with Corey and Merula, whose fake Scrofungulus had worn off, and then went around the room and chatted with others. Dumbledore then called Jacob's sibling into his office to discuss the Wizengamot trial and their continued involvement in the business of R. He indicated that it may have been destiny that intertwined their and R's fates, but reminded them they were always capable of choices. They also talked about the danger posed by R's intention to acquire the Dark Scroll.
Jacob's sibling and Moody talking to Shiratori
Jacob's sibling and Tonks also met with Moody, who was impressed by their work and ready to gave them a real Auror assignment. They listened to Moody talking about requirements for completing the assignment, including never jumping to conclusions and following the evidence. Moody then permitted Tonks to leave, but asked Jacob's sibling to stay to talk to Kazuhiro Shiratori. They were brought to the Ministry Office where Shiratori was held, and listened to him pleading not to be sent to Azkaban where Dementors could suck his soul out. Jacob's sibling, remembering their own experience with Dementors years ago, agreed that Dementors could be terrifying to an unprepared victim, but Moody stated there would be no soul-sucking. Regardless, Shiratori was willing to give information in exchange for lightening his sentence, and since Moody's report to the Ministry needed details, Jacob's sibling asked Shiratori what he had to offer.
Jacob's sibling watching as Shiratori was dragged away
In reply, Shiratori said there was an undercover agent of R at St Mungo's. Jacob's sibling was about to say his name, but was stopped by Moody, as he wanted Shiratori to say it so that they could check whether he was willing to give accurate information. Shiratori verified that his name was Burke, but refused to say more unless his sentence was lightened, and so was sent back to Azkaban while Moody could run the request up the chain of command. He praised Jacob's sibling's calmness while facing the assassin and asked them to keep the Dark Scroll safe, which Jacob's sibling immediately saw to by returning to Hogwarts.
Jacob's sibling meeting Corey in the Great Hall
In the Great Hall, Jacob's sibling saw their friends and talked to Corey about recent events. Corey assured them that the Dark Scroll was kept safe. Suddenly, Victor Ketsueki approached them and claimed that his coffin was gone. Jacob's sibling didn't understand the severity of the situation until Corey told them the Dark Scroll was hidden in the coffin. Victor sat down and explained what happened, remarking that they should hand the scroll to him in person if they wanted to share it. Andre overheard the conversation and said he saw Peeves snooping around the coffin, so they went to Peeves' Room hoping to talk to him.
Jacob's sibling and Victor talking to Peeves
In the room, Victor called out to Peeves and he immediately appeared. He thought Jacob's sibling was less fun than when they were a fifth-year, and dared them to name one thing they'd done lately that could impress him, which they did. He was reluctant to give information about the coffin, so Jacob's sibling tried hard to question him. It turned out that Peeves felt neglected after Victor became a vampire and brought the coffin to his room due to wanting to have a sleepover. Jacob's sibling also learnt that Fred and George Weasley helped him move the coffin but never showed up. They then decided to find and talk with them - Jacob's sibling with Fred and Victor with George.
Victor being glitter-bombed
They found Fred at the Courtyard talking to some fellow second-year students and asked him about the coffin. He said they would give him back the coffin as soon as a prank was complete, and disclosed that it was in the kitchens where Victor would never visit. Jacob's sibling then brought Victor to the kitchens, and he opened the coffin to check, but was showered in glitter. His belongings, however, was still safe, along with the Dark Scroll.
Jacob's sibling and Corey meeting Jacob
They then decided to go down to the Great Lake, summon Jacob and discuss a new hiding place for the scroll. He decided to keep it with him at The Burrow until they could find a more permanent place. They also studied the scroll in detail, which listed the ingredients of the mind-enhancing potion in a riddle, and determined to identify the ingredients to prevent R from getting them. Tonks then came and brought Jacob's sibling back to the Ministry for the Auror assignment.
Jacob's sibling meeting Tonks and Merula at the Ministry
At the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Jacob's sibling, Tonks and Merula talked about their anticipation of the assignment. Moody came and informed them that it would be their last assignment, and he expected no heroics from them unless they wanted to be sent back to school immediately. The assignment, as Moody explained, would be investigating a break-in of Gringotts without going after the criminal themselves, which Jacob's sibling realised was to keep them safe.
Jacob's sibling interviewing Griphook
They arrived at Gringotts and met Bill who was surprised to see them. After learning of their mission, Bill remarked the bank was messier than when they previously visited, with Griphook agreeing. They then interviewed Griphook for his witness statement, and learnt that it was a Dark wizard wearing a cap who attempted to access the vault of Elric Parpidum. Jacob's sibling then wanted to research Parpidum despite Merula's reluctance, so they went back to the Library to find out who he was with Corey.
Jacob's sibling, Merula and Corey in the Library
They read that he was a dragon slayer who collected dragon claws and had a famous encounter with a Chinese Fireball, which suggested a link to the Dark Scroll, the half of which that they possessed listed Chinese Fireball claw as an ingredient. Jacob's sibling worried if it meant R knew they had the half of the scroll, though Merula hadn't received any intelligence. They then asked her whether she heard anything about the Gringotts robbery, but Merula said only someone as high up as the Director could be in the know of every operation. Corey suggested talking to the Director, but Merula shut down the idea.
The students speaking with Moody
The students went back to the Ministry and reported their investigation to Moody. They discussed the possibility of striking a deal with Kazuhiro Shiratori to get information out of him, with Moody mentioning he was only willing to talk to Jacob's sibling themself, but it would mean visiting Azkaban. It was not normal practice, but these were also not normal times, so Moody considered the trip necessary. Merula also wanted to go to where her parents were imprisoned, but was rejected by Moody, and stormed out of the room. Moody asked Jacob's sibling to be prepared, while Professor Binns could give them a lecture on the prison so as to equip them with knowledge of its dangers.
Professor Binns falling asleep during his lecture
Back at Hogwarts, Jacob's sibling and Tonks went to the History of Magic Classroom to attend the lecture. Professor Binns, having already been contacted by Moody about their assignment, began droning on the horrors of Azkaban before falling asleep on the spot. Tonks yelled for him to wake up, and Binns assumed the lecture was over and proceeded to giving them a quiz, but after being reminded by Tonks, he started over, and said wands were not allowed in the prison, meaning wandless magic would be useful, before falling asleep again. Jacob's sibling and Tonks then talked about Merula's temper earlier at the Ministry, and Tonks showed her support to Jacob's sibling, who had been shouldering truly many responsibilities.
Jacob's sibling performing Legilimency on Jae
Before they could go, Jacob's sibling also sought to sharpen their interrogation skills by practising it on Jae in the Artefact Room, who also needed the exercise to get out of detention. Tonks informed them Jae was accused of taking something from Fred and George's room, and Jacob's sibling first tried the normal way, but seeing as Jae wouldn't break, they changed their approach and appeared doubtful of Jae's capability of sneaking into the room. Jae then admitted that he did and explained his method in detail, but stopped after realising how much he had said. He then refused to say what he had found in their locked chest, but Jacob's sibling, without thinking, then used Legilimency and found that Jae took their prototype for the Skiving Snackbox. They then felt surprised for having done that.
Jacob's sibling surrendering their wand
After doing all the preparation they could, Jacob's sibling headed to the Security Entrance Corridor of Azkaban to meet Moody, who gave his comments on the dreaded place and asked Jacob's sibling to stick close. They went to talk to Kazuhiro Shiratori, but some Dementors blocked their way, waiting for them to surrender their wands, since the prisoners must not have access to them. Moody instructed Jacob's sibling to place their wand on the Wand Weigher, and they soon got a ticket. The Dementors then cleared the way to allow them to pass.
They proceeded to the Cell Block, where Jacob's sibling noticed even more Dementors wandering about, and a section where, according to Moody, was where former Death Eaters were held. They reviewed their plan, and Moody also reminded them not to give any information to Shiratori.
Moody and Jacob's sibling meeting Shiratori
In the Interrogation Room, they saw Shiratori in his cell, who was glad to see Jacob's sibling had come. They asked him what he wanted from them, but he asked back why they came. They told them about the Gringotts break-in, and Shiratori confirmed it had been done by an agent of R. He then brought up Jacob's sibling being a Legilimens and suggested they simply read his mind for the ultimate answer.
Jacob's sibling speaking with Shiratori
Jacob's sibling did it and found out that it was Burke the Healer, who was now at the Romanian Dragon Sanctuary. Their mind was then dragged by Shiratori into a different scene, where he spoke to them about the idea of them leading R. He said he knew they would make the right decision when they were "ready to stop sleepwalking through life", and how R would make the decision for them if they didn't comply. When they returned to the real world, they found Shiratori unconscious in his cell. They talked to Moody about what happened, and they decided to go to the sanctuary at once to stop Burke.
Jacob's sibling and Moody taking care of the Chinese Fireball and Burke
At the sanctuary, they saw Burke facing a Chinese Fireball and ordered him to stand down. Burke turned and cast the Exploding Charm at them, and they dodged. Moody confronted Burke while Jacob's sibling indicated for the dragon to fly away. Burke used the Knockback Jinx on Moody, but Jacob's sibling was quick to cast the Banishing Charm at Burke, starting a duel. Moody found a chance to cast the Incarcerous Spell on Burke to restrain him, and then the Silencing Charm to shut him up. Jacob's sibling was worried that Moody was upset with them interfering, and Moody, while admitting that what they had done was commendable, asked them not to do it again. He then said he would bring Burke to Azkaban and told Jacob's sibling to report back to Gringotts.
Jacob's sibling arriving at Gringotts
They met their friends and Griphook at the bank and told them about their achievement. Griphook thanked them for their help, and Tonks was also excited about it. Merula was still upset about her parents, and Jacob's sibling did what they could to calm her down. Bill then informed them that Moody had sent an owl asking them to go back to Azkaban.
Azkaban locked down
Back at the prison, Jacob's sibling was told by Moody that they had unfinished business, which he further explained as reproducing the success of the capture of Burke. Just as they were going to surrender their wand again, Dementors flew at them. Jacob's sibling threw themself on the ground beyond the gate to avoid the Dementors, and the gate fell shut, separating them from Moody, who realised Azkaban had gone into lockdown due to a breakout. Since Jacob's sibling still had their wand, Dementors prepared to attack them, so Moody told them to run to the Interrogation Room and wait for him.
Jacob's sibling and Rakepick preparing to escape
Jacob's sibling arrived at the Investigation Department and saw a figure near the fireplace, who turned out to be Patricia Rakepick. They talked about what happened at the Sunken Vault, and Rakepick indicated that "R" was also the name of a person. They questioned her, but she wouldn't reveal the identity of the person. Suddenly, they heard Dementors come near, and Patricia told Jacob's sibling to escape and also retrieve a box.
Rakepick casting the Patronus Charm using Jacob's sibling's wand
They went into the Supermax and encountered Dementors. After Jacob's sibling fended one off with the Patronus Charm, Rakepick asked for their wand to deal with the others. She got the wand and cast the Patronus Charm powerful enough to banish the Dementors. Jacob's sibling then asked for their wand back, but Rakepick was unwilling to give up and return back to her cell. A standoff occurred for a while, and when Rakepick was distracted by the noise of Dementors faraway, Jacob's sibling cast the Disarming Charm wandlessly and got the wand back. Rakepick then fell into despair and gave up escaping, while asking Jacob's sibling not to lose their kind heart.
They went back to Moody when the lockdown was over, and Moody said they were there to talk to Rakepick, but since Jacob's sibling already did, they told him about what she had said. Moody was surprised to see Jacob's sibling unscathed after an encounter with Rakepick, and explained that he hadn't told them who they would be meeting due to secrecy concerns. He also commended them for helping apprehend so many criminals, and announced that their assignments at the Ministry were officially over.
Jacob's sibling returned to Hogwarts and met Tonks in the Great Hall. They told her about their experiences, which made her more determined to become an Auror. They also talked to their other friends, and were glad to be back for normal yet exciting school life.
In the Courtyard, Jacob's sibling met with Merula and Corey Hayden to discuss R. They talked about seeing Rakepick in Azkaban, how R was set on recruiting them, and the existence of someone higher in rank than the Director. After Merula and Corey had a fight over their attitudes and Merula left, Jacob's sibling told Corey that the two of them needed to stop antagonising each other, and that Corey's bad feelings about Merula would have to wait.
Jacob's sibling then headed to Divination class to practise for their upcoming N.E.W.T.s. Liz had predicted from tea leaves that Jacob's sibling would be late, which surprised them. Professor Trelawney then came and let the students practise Ovomancy, which Jacob's sibling did with Talbott. They wanted to divine whether Talbott would become an Auror or a Healer, but couldn't due to the yolks being muddled. Talbott then asked what they thought he should do, but Jacob's sibling said it didn't matter since it was he who would decide it. Trelawney ended the class with her prediction of the students' performance in the tests and her wish of good luck.
After class, Merula asked Jacob's sibling to talk alone by the Great Lake. Merula was extra suspicious about whether Jacob's sibling was being followed, so it took some time for them to reassure her they weren't. Merula then said that she didn't want R to obtain the next ingredient on the Dark Scroll and wanted to summon Jacob so they could decipher what the ingredient was. They also talked about the situation among them and Corey, who Merula felt like was trying to manipulate Jacob's sibling. Jacob's sibling was about to tell Merula what the ingredient was when Corey arrived, shocked at what they were doing. Corey was then determined to find out what Merula was up to, and left.
Merula then wanted to meet up with Jacob's sibling in the Artefact Room to decipher the riddle. There, they told her the riddle, and together they worked out that the answer was Acromantula venom. Aiming to find Acromantulas, they soon went to the Forest Grove, reviewed what they knew about the spiders and came up with a plan. However, Merula started talking about Corey again, and Corey arrived and retorted back. Jacob's sibling tried to defend Merula, but Corey said they had proof that she was a liar. Corey was about to divulge the identity of the Director when Merula cast Langlock on both Corey and Jacob's sibling. Merula then warned Jacob's sibling to listen to Kazuhiro Shiratori's message, and Disapparated with Corey.
Jacob's sibling talked with Professor Dumbledore about the events that led up to the kidnapping, and Dumbledore wanted all students to stay on school grounds, but made an exception for Jacob's sibling as Moody would like to talk to them. At the Ministry, Moody and they tried to decipher Shiratori's message, and realised that it was probably about the Forest Vault which had triggered the sleepwalking curse. Moody wanted Jacob's sibling to stay at Hogwarts, but they disagreed, so Moody decided to get reinforcement to help them with visiting the vault.
Jacob's sibling being transported by the hand mirror
After some preparation, they went to the Spider's Lair outside the vault. Moody reported that there was no one there and nothing in the vault. Jacob's sibling didn't believe it and searched for themself, eventually finding a black feather that reminded them of R's Transfigured messages. They used Reparifarge and Untransfigured it into a hand mirror. Moody thought it might've been a two-way mirror that let R talk to them without physically being there. Jacob's sibling then heard Corey crying for help and, despite Moody's warning, grabbed the mirror, which transported them to the Whomping Willow.
Jacob's sibling finding Corey in the Shrieking Shack
Jacob's sibling saw Merula waiting when landing. They asked her a few questions, and then Merula made the Whomping Willow stop moving, revealing the passageway to the Shrieking Shack. When they arrived, they saw Corey lying on the floor unconscious, and tried to reach them, but was knocked back by the Director. She introduced herself as Verucca Buckthorn and told Jacob's sibling that everyone and everything of R they had encountered were under her plans. She then referred to Merula as her niece and revealed her full name to be Verucca Buckthorn-Snyde. She talked with Jacob's sibling like there was someone else there, who turned out to be Peregrine, their father.
Jacob's sibling and Peregrine speaking privately
Peregrine led his child to the lower floor to talk privately. Jacob's sibling was still shocked to see their father being the leader of R, and also that he was talking like a normal dad instead of the mastermind of an evil cabel. Peregrine said they got it all wrong if they thought R was evil, and caught them up with his story while he was away - being a tracker by trade, he travelled far from home too often, which led to him and their mother splitting up. Jacob's sibling asked if that was when he got mixed up with R, but Peregrine said it happened much later as a side gig.
He apologised for not being with Jacob's sibling, and offered to be part of their life from then. They also talked about Jacob, who still didn't know who Peregrine was yet, and Rakepick, who, according to Peregrine, acted on her own when she killed Rowan. Peregrine said he would explain everything once Jacob's sibling joined R, but they couldn't think of a single reason to do that. Peregrine then declared that R were the good guys.
Jacob's sibling and Peregrine rejoining the others
Suddenly, they heard a noise coming from upstairs. They went up and saw that Corey was awake, who said they fainted when Merula told them who Verucca and Peregrine were. Peregrine then joined the conversation and explained that R's purpose was simply the "pursuit of knowledge and justice". Jacob's sibling questioned again if Rowan's death was part of their plans, but Peregrine insisted that Rakepick wasn't in fact representing R. Jacob's sibling also noticed his claim that the Ministry was corrupt, which was the reason they blamed R. Peregrine believed they needed to overcome the barriers set by the Ministry in order to create peace and achieve their goals.
Jacob and his sibling talking
Jacob's sibling said they needed time to think about all of this, and after some misunderstanding, they understood Peregrine was reminding them that they wouldn't have much time left in school. Jacob's sibling then decided to leave without Merula, and went to the Great Lake to tell Jacob about their father and Verucca, and what they spoke about. The siblings took some time to remember the dad they knew, and Jacob's sibling learnt that their brother was rather resentful at him. Regardless, Jacob's sibling believed Jacob and they needed to stick together, but Jacob said he too needed time to think and advised his sibling to go back to school.
Jacob's sibling then rejoined their friends in the Courtyard, who were very curious about their recent experience. They didn't divulge anything important, and their friends soon began to suspect if Corey was hiding something, since Corey hadn't shown up in the morning as planned. Meanwhile, Jacob's sibling was lost in thought, and when they snapped out of it, they caught up with some pieces of rumour, including that they would be getting a new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor since the last one had run off the previous night. Jacob's sibling asked why Bill was unavailable, and Charlie explained that he had been working overtime and was soon to be sent on a long trip. Though curious, the students hadn't learnt the new professor's identity, so Jacob's sibling suggested they hurry to class to find out.
Olivia Green appearing in Classroom 3C
They went to Classroom 3C and guessed what the professor might've been like. Jacob's sibling learnt that Tulip had heard the other professors discussing the new teacher, but Tulip thought they had just been talking about the colour "green". Jacob's sibling wondered if it could be someone's name, when the professor herself, Olivia Green appeared in the classroom and introduced herself. Upon hearing her name, Jacob's sibling was reminded of her story of searching the Cursed Vaults with their brother, and realised that, since Jacob had been forced to investigate the vaults by R, their new professor had worked with the organisation as well.
The family getting into an argument
After class, Jacob's sibling found Corey in the Courtyard and saw them still shaken by recent events. The two discussed Professor Green and whether or not to tell the Circle of Khanna about Merula. An owl from Jacob then arrived with a letter asking them to meet with him and Peregrine at the Leaky Cauldron. They went and listened to their father explain himself, and Jacob soon started an argument and left. Before his sibling left as well, Peregrine reminded them again his offer for them to join R.
Jacob's sibling approaching Ben in Flourish and Blotts
Outside in Diagon Alley, the siblings talked about their father and also Olivia Green, of whom Jacob shared his memory. His sibling then noticed Ben near Flourish and Blotts, so they went to catch up with him and learnt that he was studying for the N.E.W.T.s, and also that the bookstore reminded him of Rowan. They reminisced for a while about Rowan and talked briefly about what to do with the leader of R should they know their identity.
Jacob's sibling approaching Professor Sikander in the Muggle Studies Classroom
At night in the Courtyard, Jacob's sibling reunited the Circle of Khanna and told them about Merula's involvement with R and the story of Olivia Green. The students agreed that Green's appearance was suspicious, and Jacob's sibling said they wanted to gather information about her. They first went to the Muggle Studies Classroom to find Professor Sikander and got him to talk about what other professors did in their spare time. They learnt that Green liked to write in her journal in the Courtyard in the afternoon, so they went there to spy on her with Talbott.
Jacob's sibling and Talbott seeing McGonagall coming to talk to Green
They saw Green writing when Professor McGonagall came and talked to her, and were confused to hear Green saying she had nothing but pleasant memories of Hogwarts. After hearing Jacob's sibling explaining why it sounded so suspicious, Talbott suggested she might've been covering for something, so they gathered the Circle of Khanna again in the Boathouse to tell them about it. Tonks suggested stealing Green's journal to find out what it contained, which Jacob's sibling thought was a good idea. They came up with a plan of searching Green's office, and Tonks and Jae volunteered for the task.
Jacob's sibling discovering the memory jars
In the office, Jacob's sibling found the journal but saw no mention of anything related to R. Tonks then tripped and knocked over a painting, revealing a chest hidden behind. They opened it and saw jars containing Green's memories. They put everything back and got out of the office before Green came back, and gathered the Circle once more in the Training Grounds.
The Circle of Khanna meeting in the Training Grounds
Jacob's sibling told them about what they'd found and suggested that Green's bad memories of Hogwarts had been extracted into the jars. They were talking about using a Pensieve to view the memories when Merula came and revealed Peregrine's identity to the Circle, who were shocked and disappointed. Jacob's sibling tried to explain themself, before the entire Circle left to process the information.
Jacob's sibling meeting their father and Dumbledore
They went to the Great Hall and saw the Circle wondering about their real loyalty, so they talked to the Circle about what they really felt. They also wanted to talk to Dumbledore, but surprisingly saw their dad in his office, who offered to take them on a day trip outside the school. Peregrine recalled to Jacob's sibling his mischievous school days with Dumbledore, and then the father and child went to Three Broomsticks to have Butterbeers.
Jacob's sibling and Peregrine at the Three Broomsticks Inn
After Peregrine ordered the drinks, he asked his child about their choice of career after graduation, and Jacob's sibling told him about the assignments they had done. Peregrine asked again if they had considered joining R and explained to them the organisation's true goals - to purge the Ministry of an infestation by displacing some corrupt officials. Jacob's sibling couldn't recall seeing corruption within the Ministry, but when their dad encouraged them to think deeper, they remembered being used Veritaserum before the Wizengamot trial. Peregrine was furious at this and snapped at Rosmerta, who dropped the Butterbeer glasses in her hands. He apologised, but then asked Jacob's sibling if they saw why R's mission was important.
Jacob's sibling and Peregrine talking at the train station
Peregrine then brought them to Hogsmeade station, where they sat on a bench and listened to Peregrine talking about the pretend expedition he had set up for them and Jacob when they were little. He apologised again for his outburst and assured them he wouldn't do anything to hurt them. Jacob's sibling thought they didn't know their father anymore, and so Peregrine took them down memory lane and showed them they had had good times together. He hoped that they could be by his side as they rid the Ministry of corruption and became heroes, and asked them one more time to join R so that they could be family again. Jacob's sibling, however, chose to go back to school first.
Green talking to Jacob's sibling in the Courtyard
They went back to the Courtyard and thought things over. Olivia Green then approached them and talked to them about minds and their connection to her position at the Department of Mysteries. They decided to test Green's memories by asking her about Jacob's school days, and Green couldn't remember Rakepick well and thought Duncan Ashe had died due to drinking the Draught of Living Death that he had brewed, which didn't line up with the truth and prompted Jacob's sibling to find out why Green's memories seemed wrong.
They talked to the Circle again in the Training Grounds about this, but soon they began arguing about whether Peregrine was responsible for Rowan's death. Liz remarked that they still didn't know who to trust, which gave Jacob's sibling more reason to find out about Green's memories. They told the Circle what Green had said, and what Rakepick had said in Azkaban about something hidden in her office. They decided that they needed to break into Green's office again to retrieve the vials of memories, and discussed what distraction to set up with the Circle. They thought of releasing Tim the Wampus cat in the Courtyard while Green was there, and to make sure no one would be hurt, they went to visit Tim with Liz and Barnaby.
At the Care of Magical Creatures grounds, the students saw Tim napping and talked about how to lure him to the Courtyard. They decided to use a Niffler as bait like the last time, but one of them needed to hold the Niffler so Tim wouldn't run away to catch it. Liz then woke Tim up and executed the plan. Jacob's sibling went up to Green's office to retrieve the memories with Tulip and Jae, and heard a student shouting the sighting of the Wampus cat. They removed the painting and took out the chest containing the memories, but Green then arrived and demanded an explanation. Jacob's sibling talked to her about the memories, which she didn't seem to be aware of. When she heard them claiming the memories were hers, she stopped them and brought the students to see Dumbledore.
The students brought to see Dumbledore
The Headmaster heard about the incident and wondered if it was related to the released Wampus cat, and Green said she had used the Sleeping Charm on Tim easily. Jacob's sibling defended themself and said they were only trying to retrieve Green's memories, but Dumbledore thought they were reckless and considered expelling them from Hogwarts, though he later decided not to, but chose to inform their parents about it. Jacob's sibling blurted out that he couldn't tell their father, which confused Dumbledore. He also gave the students detention and required an additional promise from Jacob's sibling not to violate any more school rules.
Green then declined Dumbledore's offer for her to use the Pensieve to view the memories, but asked Jacob's sibling to meet her in the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom to talk. There, she admitted that seeing the memories with her initials was too weird, and asked what they knew about memory tampering. Jacob's sibling recalled learning Obliviate, but Green said creating false memories was much more difficult. She then expressed her fear of seeing things she wouldn't want to if she viewed the memories, but Jacob's sibling convinced her to do it anyway, though she needed to prepare, which allowed Jacob's sibling to contact their brother about it.
The Circle voting for Merula's membership
They summoned Jacob by the Great Lake and filled him in, and they also went to another dinner with their father at Three Broomsticks. Peregrine asked them about their break-in of Green's office, and seeing as there was no other choice, they explained it to him. He was about to be mad again, but Jacob interrupted him in time, and they also got to bond. Jacob's sibling then went back to Hogwarts before curfew, and they met with some members of the Circle in the Great Hall to discuss what to do next. The students decided to put Merula on trial and vote on whether she could be kept in the Circle, which Jacob's sibling went to tell her about. They wanted her to explain her side, and discovered that Verucca had made an Unbreakable Vow with her when she thought her aunt was trying to help her after what happened with Rakepick. At night, the Circle gathered in the Training Grounds and was informed of Merula's situation before the vote was cast, and with Jacob's sibling being the tie-breaker, they made the final choice.
Jacob's sibling witnessing Green's memories
Later, Green requested Jacob's sibling for viewing the memories together in the Pensieve. They went to Dumbledore's office and learnt a few things about Pensieves from the Headmaster, and then dived in. They saw a younger Olivia Green talking to Jacob about letting Duncan brew the Erumpent Potion; Olivia spying on Rakepick and learning that the potion was her orders; Olivia talking to Jacob again after Duncan was dead; and Olivia confronting Rakepick and having her memories wiped by her.
Jacob's sibling talking to Peregrine in Three Broomsticks
After emerging from the Pensieve, Green left in a hurry, and Jacob's sibling told Dumbledore about what they'd seen. They also talked about Peregrine, who Dumbledore had suspected was the leader of R. He voiced his concern for the safety of the students, and suggested Jacob's sibling find Green and talk about the memories. They went to her office and learnt further that what she had overheard was R's plan of using mind control. They then let slip that Peregrine had never mentioned it, and had to explain to Green who their father was. They later went to Three Broomsticks to meet with Peregrine and listened to him talking about their idea of using mind control to put retirement suggestions in Ministry officials' minds.
Jacob's sibling talking to Merula in the Boathouse
Still not sure about whether or not to join R, Jacob's sibling talked to Merula in the Boathouse, who said she knew nothing about mind control, and that she basically had two important jobs. They learnt that apart from convincing them to join R, her other job was retrieving a crown from the Sunken Vault, the name of which, however, she couldn't tell. They also went to talk to their brother about the mind control plan, and surprisingly, he concurred with it and thought it couldn't have been an evil plan if Peregrine admitted to it so easily. They learnt that Jacob had talked to Peregrine a few times in private, which seemed to have relaxed their relationship considerably.
Jacob's sibling and Olivia meeting Elton Elderberry
Later, Jacob's sibling went to talk to Olivia about the things they had learnt, and in order to know more about the crown Merula had mentioned, Olivia suggested talking to her mentor Elton Elderberry at the Ministry. There, they met Elderberry, now an Archivist, as well as his dog Herbert Chewsworthy III, and learnt that he was a centenarian. When they talked to him about the crown, he realised it was the Crown of Mneme, and explained that its wearer would be able to project thoughts and memories into another person's mind, and it was hidden away due to its danger. He suggested they avoid the crown, which had an apparent link to the Dark wizard Dai Ryusaki.
Peregrine with the Circle of Khanna
They explained to Olivia who Ryusaki was on the way back to Hogwarts, and then met with the Circle to update them. Their friends differed on whether it was justifiable to use mind control on corrupt Ministry officials, but they agreed that they should still prevent R from getting the Dark Scroll. The next day, they summoned Jacob at the Great Lake and told him about the crown, but he seemed to think much more positively about R and also invited his sibling to join. They then planned to meet the Circle at Three Broomsticks, but bumped into their father who were joking with the students. He talked to Jacob's sibling about how good their friends were and showed how much he knew about them.
Outside the inn, Peregrine spoke privately to his child, expressing again his willingness to let them by his side. Jacob's sibling demanded to know why he was so against the Ministry, and so Peregrine talked about Death Eaters from the First Wizarding War deemed innocent, mentioning that they destroyed "his medical legacy". He also revealed that he was able to obtain the whole contents of the Dark Scroll (which he also referred to as "his") thanks to Merula, and said that Jacob's sibling, being a Legilimens, was the final piece of the puzzle. Before he left, he asked his child to have their answer ready by graduation.
Jacob's sibling went back to Hogwarts and discussed with Olivia about Ministry corruption and their father's plan, as well as his strange wording. Olivia was disapproving of mind-controlling, and promised to help them no matter what, suggesting they could be friends after Jacob's sibling graduated. The two went to the Ministry to see Elderberry again, this time meeting Moody and his colleague Callum McClintock in the Atrium, and caught up with Moody. They then went to the All-Purpose Room and talked to Elderberry about their need of researching Ryusaki.
Elderberry agreed to take them to the Archives, and they began to search for relevant materials with Herbert's help. They found that Ryusaki originally built the Crown of Mneme to help patients with traumatic memories, but hid it away when he feared it was too dangerous. They realised that Ryusaki was not a Dark wizard despite having been told so, and decided to talk to their dad and warn him about the possible consequences of using the crown.
Upon being back in the All-Purpose Room, Jacob's sibling shared their discoveries with Elderberry, and he in turn explained that the capture of Ryusaki was a miscommunication and was covered up to avoid the crown being used for evil purposes. Jacob's sibling noticed that he knew more about Ryusaki than the archives said, and Elderberry revealed he was a part of the task force that captured Ryusaki.
They then went to the Leaky Cauldron to meet Peregrine and told him what they had learnt, but he regarded the archives as potential lies, and wondered if Jacob's sibling was stalling for more time. Before he left, he dropped an amulet that he then picked up, which reminded them of the same amulet in Ryusaki's portraits. They went back to the Ministry Archives to learn more about it, and found that it had been stolen, and had the ability to turn its wearers into Dark wizards.
They consulted Arthur Weasley about enchanted objects, and learnt that whether an object was enchanted could be found out by interacting with it, but also sometimes sensed by feeling it nearby. They recalled they had little experience with cursed objects besides the cursed Bludger and the cursed CD case, and Arthur suggested they talk to an expert, who turned out to be McClintock. He immediately got down to reviewing cursed amulets without talking about himself, and covered many ways an object could be cursed, including by accident. Jacob's sibling wondered if it was Ryusaki's death that bewitched the amulet, and McClintock also asked why they were so interested in cursed amulets, before telling them that he was only a janitor rather than a Curse-Breaker, which Jacob's sibling took him to be.
Back at the Great Lake at Hogwarts, Jacob's sibling summoned their brother and told him about their investigation, but Jacob didn't think Peregrine had changed, and even suspected his sibling to be looking for a reason to make their dad seem like the bad guy. He thought they could simply ask to look at the amulet, which they agreed. At Three Broomsticks, they talked to Peregrine about the amulet, but he laughed and explained that he examined artefacts carefully, and he carried the amulet because it was the first Ryusaki artefact he had found. He gave it to his children, who didn't sense any Dark Magic. He reminded Jacob's sibling again about joining R, and revealed that Jacob had already rejoined.
In the Great Hall, Jacob's sibling joined their friends and conversed about their impending graduation, as well as why Jacob rejoined R, regarding which their friends had different opinions. In the end, Chiara suggested they ask Jacob himself about it. They went back to the Great Lake to talk to Jacob, and he explained that he also saw corruption within the Ministry, such as when Madam Umbridge had used Veritaserum before the Wizengamot trial. He revealed he would be helping R with testing mind control since he was also a Legilimens.
Jacob's sibling's physical appearance was mostly a mystery. However, it was known that they were slender and of average height. They usually wore the traditional school robes.
Jacob's sibling was extremely compassionate and, while not as perceptive as their best friend Rowan Khanna, still possessed a keen intellect. They were very talented and academically competent, being skilled in a number of magical fields, receiving much praise from the majority of their teachers, often responding to such praise by grinning. They were also skilled at coming up with things quickly and lying effectively, though they never lied if they could avoid doing so.
Thanks to the actions of their brother Jacob, they were often the subject of dislike and apprehension and had difficulty making friends. They were unfazed by this, and instead chose to be nonjudgmental and accepting of those around them. Jacob's sibling was very loyal to their friends. They were always eager to help them, such as when they helped Ben Copper overcome his fear of riding a broomstick and convinced him to stop isolating in a closet, and when they acted like they could see through Talbott Winger's apparent lack of desire for friendship in general. Jacob's sibling was also very empathetic, as best shown by how they treated Talbott Winger, Barnaby Lee, Ismelda Murk and Merula Snyde.
Jacob's sibling was very courageous, as they stood up to Merula Snyde, Severus Snape, and even Fenrir Greyback, and sought out the Cursed Vaults relentlessly in spite of the teachers warning them not to. Jacob's sibling believed that in finding the vaults, they would gain new knowledge and treasure, but most of their drive came from wanting to find their brother, whom they loved unconditionally.
Though never a defining trait, Jacob's sibling had a cheeky and occasionally sarcastic sense of humour, such as when they encouraged Ben to stop isolating and added "…though the skulls might miss you". In their first year, Merula told them they were unwanted to which they replied "You're the one everyone wishes would just go away." When Chiara Lobosca accused them of having ulterior motives for chatting, they replied, "It's possible my ulterior motive might be trying to get to know you better."
In their second year, Jacob's sibling developed a passion for Quidditch as well as possessing a natural talent for it, which created a bond with Skye Parkin and, later, Erika Rath. They initially started as a Chaser, though in subsequent years, opening in the team roster also saw them playing Beater, Keeper, and Seeker. In their fourth year, team captain Orion Amari stepped back from duties while recovering from an injury, so Jacob's sibling and Skye split the captain's role between them.
For Jacob's sibling, their years at Hogwarts had been a journey of growth and renewal. Despite being a lonely child who frequently watched their brother closely with immense concern and kept to themselves, Jacob's sibling had found a family at school that could relate to them and give them new purpose and meaning. Their social skills improved phenomenally during their magical education. Indeed, they tended to form the closest relationships (positive and negative) with students who brought out their own strengths: being around Rowan Khanna had made them more intellectual, being around Ben Copper had made them more compassionate, being around Penny Haywood had made them more extroverted, being around Nymphadora Tonks had made them more unafraid of being themselves, being around Skye Parkin had made them more sports-minded, and being around Merula Snyde had made them more empathetic and less vulnerable. Jacob's sibling tended to have some of those effects on their friends in turn, as people like Haywood and Talbott Winger had pointed out, they were both a safe place and dependable source when their friends were vulnerable, endangered, conflicted, or all of the above.
Jacob's sibling Disarming Merula Snyde
Potential second wands
Storybook and Heart Key Necklace
Enchanted roses
The All-Wizard Cup
Jacob's sibling also kept several pets in their dorm room including:
Jacob's sibling had at one point been considerably popular; during the preparation of Voyages, Vampires, and Valentines!, all of the other invited individuals, Andre Egwu, Penny Haywood, Barnaby Lee, Merula Snyde, and Talbott Winger, had sought them out individually, in the hopes of becoming their date for the event. They also sought out their friend for the Valentine's Day Ball in their fifth year.
Jacob's sibling may have previously developed a particular crush on one of their friends and escorted that person to the Celestial Ball and on a first date. Later they may have gone on full dates with some of their friends.
Jacob was this individual's older brother. It is implied that they had a rather close and affectionate relationship with him during their early childhood, as they pretended to duel with Liquorice Wands with Jacob when they were younger and even stole Sickles from their mother's coat pockets at his behest. When Jacob came home after his first year of Hogwarts, he tried to teach them all the magic he learned at Hogwarts, of which they were unable to perform any of it, but it remained one of the three possibilities of their happiest memory used to cast the Patronus Charm. After Jacob went mysteriously missing following his expulsion from Hogwarts, his younger sibling was left devastated and mourned his disappearance with their mother. When assaulted by a Dementor, they are forced to relive their worst memory: their mother sobbing uncontrollably upon learning Jacob's disappearance.
Jacob's disappearance also had major repercussions on his sibling outside of family tragedy. Due to his morbid obsession with the Cursed Vaults, subsequent expulsion and apparent initiation into the Death Eaters, Jacob inadvertently established a rather infamous reputation and was perceived as insane by the wizarding world. Being of his kin, his younger sibling, too, was largely viewed by suspicion, distrust and even hate (with Snape and Merula being among their biggest detractors), which thus affected their early years of schooling and ability to make a first good impression on people. Despite all this, however, Jacob's sibling never felt bitter or resentful towards the negative publicity that they received, caused by their brother, and continued to feel nothing but unconditional love for Jacob. Their early years at Hogwarts was marked by agony over the mysterious whereabouts of their brother, thus leading them to resolve to find and rescue him no matter what.
Indeed, this strong, unconditional love for their brother became their primary point of obsession with seeking the Cursed Vaults, inciting them to sometimes behave recklessly and enact dangerous schemes in their goal to save Jacob, such as igniting the cloak of a member of faculty and fighting a troll in the Hogwarts grounds. They would also defend Jacob's honour against accusations and mockery when necessary, refusing to believe the perpetuated rumour that he was insane and had joined the Death Eaters.
After finally rescuing and reuniting their brother in 1989, Jacob's sibling was shown to be incredibly relieved and happy at seeing their brother safe and sound.
Bill Weasley, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling admired Bill Weasley, but not as much as Rowan Khanna did. The two became close allies because of how much they had in common and were both very helpful to each other when it came to martial magic.
Charlie Weasley, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling presumably better familiarised themselves with Charlie Weasley in their third year of Hogwarts, during which they shared Care of Magical Creatures with him. Their friendship with him evolved to such that Charlie offered to talk down the imperious Merula Snyde on their behalf during their fourth year.
Jacob's sibling met Rowan Khanna at Diagon Alley. The two became good friends at school. They both bonded over the fact that both of them did not truly have anyone else going into Hogwarts — Jacob's sibling was regarded as insane thanks to their brother's actions, and Rowan was socially inept and mostly talked about trees. They continuously helped each other get through both everyday and life-threatening situations. When Rowan died, they were devastated, and it was hard for them to get over the loss.
Ben Copper, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling was quite friendly with Ben Copper, although not as close as Rowan. They cared deeply for his well-being, as they became very worried when he went missing, and showed their loyalty to him by infiltrating Gryffindor Tower merely because it may or may not lead to him. They also helped Ben to get over his fear of flying.
Penny Haywood, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling admired Penny Haywood for her popularity, kindness, and overall competence. She treated them cordially, but they got her attention by standing up to Merula Snyde. They brewed a potion together to neutralise Mrs Norris. Penny was grateful for Jacob's sibling putting her in a life-threatening situation, as she loved excitement more than they did. She always seemed to know what was going on at Hogwarts, which made her very useful as well. They were surprised when she was close to Talbott Winger.
Nymphadora Tonks, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling and Nymphadora Tonks met in their first year at Hogwarts, and shared Herbology class together. Over the course of the next couple of years, they grew close and became best friends, often going to Hogsmeade to visit Zonko's Joke Shop in particular in order to plan their pranks together.
Barnaby Lee, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling initially had an antagonistic relationship with Barnaby Lee because of his loyalty to Merula and his threats to them. However, they began getting along better when Barnaby joined their side and Merula later did the same, and when they helped him when Ismelda Murk tried to drug him via Love Potion. He also said Jacob's sibling was very polite and brave and looked adorable when they rolled their eyes in response to his puns and when they discussed animals and ruefully used Engorgement Charms on his drinks at Hogsmeade, though he was under magical effects when he said it.
Talbott Winger, one of their best friends
Jacob's sibling first met Talbott Winger when looking to become an Animagus. They were surprised to learn he was close to Penny Haywood. They did not, however, become friends until they located Talbott's swan necklace and took it back from Mrs Norris.
Andre Egwu, one of their best friends
Andre Egwu attended Transfiguration and Flying classes with Jacob's sibling, although the two didn't know each other a lot and only regarded the other as a classmate. When Jacob's sibling ventured out to Hogsmeade for the first time, Andre properly introduced himself to them and expressed his gratitude for them breaking the cursed ice that had encased him in the Quidditch Changing Rooms, thus unknowingly saving his life.
Tulip Karasu, a good friend
Jacob's sibling got along with Tulip Karasu and they teamed up seeking the Cursed Vaults. Although Tulip had in fact betrayed Merula for a better chance at actually finding the vaults, she later came to regret this and Jacob's sibling helped to ease her guilt, with Merula working with them both in the future. In spite of this, Tulip was surprised that Jacob's sibling did not have a grudge against Merula or distrust her entirely.
Skye Parkin, a good friend
Jacob's sibling bonded with Skye Parkin over their shared passion for Quidditch, though they were annoyed with her zealous attitude. Both of them were able to work effectively together as two units on the same team over a common objective of winning the House Cup.
Jacob's sibling bonded with Murphy McNully over their shared passion for Quidditch, though they were annoyed with his excessive talking. Both of them were able to work effectively together as two units on the same team over a common objective of winning the House Cup.
Jacob's sibling bonded with Orion Amari over their shared passion for Quidditch, though they were annoyed with his old-fashioned, almost medieval rhetoric. Both of them were able to work effectively together as two units on the same team over a common objective of winning the House Cup.
Merula Snyde, their arch-rival and enemy turned ally
Merula Snyde became the archrival of Jacob's sibling almost immediately upon arriving at Hogwarts. Merula came from a supremacist family and desired to surpass all others, thus she considered herself superior to virtually everyone. She bullied Jacob's sibling for allegedly being cursed, though they did not truly hate Merula and merely wished she would leave them alone. They first met when Merula tried to force Rowan Khanna into claiming she was the most powerful witch in the wizarding world, and she baffled them by already knowing who they were. Jacob's sibling learned she was born of two Death Eaters, and while it made them realise why she was a bully, it did not soften their mutual enmity at all.
They were forced to resort to violence when Merula antagonised them and again when she antagonised Ben Copper. During their first round, Merula bested them with a Trip Jinx, but they bested her the second time via the Disarming Charm. They were forced to challenge her a third time in their second year, and while Merula agreed to no more duelling, she refused to stay off his tail. They were also enemies because they both sought to find the Cursed Vaults, albeit for different reasons. When Jacob's sibling arrived with Rowan Khanna and another friend, she used the Trip Jinx against all three of them, confusing Jacob's sibling who did not understand why she wanted to solve the mystery as much as he did. She believed they were going to meet a sticky end someday.
Despite being enemies, they began getting along better when Patricia Rakepick recruited the both of them as apprentices.
Ismelda Murk, their enemy turned ally
Ismelda Murk used to despise Jacob's sibling for the threat they posed to Merula's chances of finding the Cursed Vaults, but after they helped her resolve her enmity with Erika Rath and her obsession with Barnaby Lee, their relationship grew less hostile.
Members of Hogwarts staff this student had noteworthy relations with
Jacob's sibling generally had a positive relationship with the staff at Hogwarts, who were all impressed by their academic prowess. However, they were also looked at with apprehension because of Jacob, and was looked at with particular apprehension for their wrongdoings. They generally got along with Filius Flitwick, though he hesitated teaching them the Trip Jinx. They also had a good relationship with Rubeus Hagrid and frequently came to his rescue. Their worst relationship, inevitably, was with Severus Snape, who always treated them with contempt and frequently looked for reasons to take House Points from them. He was never fair with them either, such as when he gave them a single point for making a better potion than Merula Snyde, whom he pretended to like when he actually despised her. Their best relationship was of course with Albus Dumbledore, who openly acknowledged their magical prowess to be exemplary and treated them with nothing but respect and kindness and none of the apprehension the other staff members did for their wrongdoings and actually expressed sympathy for them, to the point where he even gave them House Points for saving Hogwarts from three of the curses of the Cursed Vaults. Even though Dumbledore could get stern and firm with Jacob's sibling, it was for their own good and apart from punishing them to constant detentions with Pitts, he had defended them from practically all of the staff's criticism.
Patricia Rakepick, a hated enemy
Presumably well aware of the events that led to the expulsion of former Hogwarts student Jacob long before she ever met his younger sibling, given her own interest in the vaults, Patricia Rakepick took interest in the latter individual for their first-hand experience with the Cursed Vaults, and was known to have kept an eye on them, possibly even before she was invited back to Hogwarts by the Headmaster of the day, Albus Dumbledore, to help put the threat of the Cursed Vaults to rest. Though she did not waste any time soliciting the help of said student and their group of friends to make her own, sanctioned search for the vaults easier, she assured Jacob's sibling she meant them no harm. Severus Snape, the Potions Master and former schoolmate of Rakepick, however, did not trust her at all, going so far as to saying she had ulterior motives for being at Hogwarts and that she was after the Cursed Vaults for her own gain, and quite possibly meant to kill both them and anyone else who stood in her way. Rakepick continued, however, to request the assistance of Jacob's sibling, teaching them the Shield Charm to test their abilities and, getting impressive results, continued to offer guidance, such as lending them her own Niffler to help in the search for clues and eventually teaching them Arania Exumai in order to prepare them for a potential fight with Acromantulas.
In the end, however, Snape's suspicions were proven partially correct when she fooled Jacob's sibling into breaking into the office of Argus Filch for a wild goose chase, only to swoop in and retrieve something she herself had been looking for. This eventually left Jacob's sibling uncertain if Rakepick could be trusted or if they were playing right into the hand of their potential enemy. Rakepick did redeem herself for her indiscretions, however, when she saved the life of Jacob's sibling by coming to their rescue just as their attacker was about to deliver the coup de grace, casting a Blasting Curse so powerful that the attacker was blasted backwards, across almost the whole length of the Clock Tower Courtyard and into a wall, knocking them out cold. Upon undoing the Disillusionment Charm the attacker was under, they discovered that the person in question was Ben Copper, whom Rakepick transported back into the castle to prevent him from hurting himself or others while Jacob's sibling went after the Forest Vault.
The player character as they appear in the promotional trailer
The player character as they appear in the Quidditch trailer
The player character as they appear in the BackToHogwarts trailer
The player character as they appear in the BackToHogwarts trailer
Penny mentions the name Maya in official launch trailer of Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
Male protagonist, created by one of the players
Female protagonist, created by one of the players
Great Britain
Forest Grove, Forbidden Forest, Hogwarts grounds, Highlands, Scotland, Great Britain
Rowan Khanna (December 1972 – 1990) was a wizard or witch who began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1984. Their family owned a farm that supplied high-quality wood for the manufacture of wands and broomsticks.
Rowan aspired to become the youngest professor in Hogwarts history, but this dream was never realised as a result of their tragic murder at the hands of the Dark witch Patricia Rakepick in 1990.
Rowan was born into a British-Indian wizarding family in Great Britain in December 1972. Their family owned a farm that supplied high-quality wood for the manufacture of wands and broomsticks.
Rowan was interested in reading from a young age. They were considered nerdy and weird by the age of eleven and had never made any friends.
While shopping for school supplies in Diagon Alley, Rowan met and befriended future fellow student and housemate, Jacob's sibling, to whom Rowan advised starting with Flourish and Blotts. When the shopping concluded, Rowan and Jacob's sibling promised to see each other again on the train.
Rowan began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1984 and was Sorted into the same House as Jacob's sibling.
Before the start of their first Potions class, Jacob's sibling found Merula Snyde, an imperious and cruel Slytherin witch, trying to bully Rowan into admitting her as the most powerful witch to in Hogwarts. Rowan tried to reason with Merula by listing out other factors, but Merula wouldn't budge, which prompted Jacob's sibling to intervene on Rowan's behalf and stand up for their friend. Professor Severus Snape ordered them to get into the classroom before the argument could escalate further. Rowan later thanked Jacob's sibling for standing up to Merula for them.
Later when their Prefect decided to teach Jacob's sibling how to duel, Rowan helped Jacob's sibling find a duelling book in the Artefact Room, where Jacob's sibling saw some visions and heard a mysterious voice saying a kind of ice was here and a vault would open. Using the duelling book, they learned a new spell before teaching it to Jacob's sibling.
After Jacob's sibling's duel with Merula, they overheard Professor Snape and Argus Filch discussing the Cursed Vaults in a corridor and told Rowan about it. They went back to the corridor with Jacob's sibling and found a locked door. Before they figured out how to open it, Mrs Norris showed up, prompting them to leave.
Rowan and Jacob's sibling came up with a plan of brewing a Sleeping Draught to use on Mrs Norris. After Jacob's sibling brewed it with Penny Haywood, they went back to the door with Jacob's sibling and another friend of them, tricked Mrs Norris into drinking it and opened the door. However, Merula overpowered them and went in first. The door led to a room in which they discovered the cursed ice, with Merula trapped in it. The ice spread, blocked the door behind them, and trapped Rowan and their friends too. Jacob's sibling saved them and their other friend reopened the door. Before leaving, Rowan noticed some code written on the wall and remembered it. The code, later deciphered by Rowan, suggested there was an Ice Knight who stood guard past the Vanished Stairs.
Upon realising Ben Copper's disappearance during the Start-of-Term Feast of the 1985–1986 school year, Rowan and Jacob's sibling proceeded to search for their friend. In the Artefact Room, they found a note, which Rowan later deciphered, revealing that it was signed by someone using the initial "R" and contained instructions to locate a black quill hidden in a common room different from their own, which would turn into a note with additional information when Untransfigured. Rowan devised a plan for Jacob's sibling to sneak into the said common room using the Shrinking Charm during the Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Slytherin, with Rowan keeping watch.
After Jacob's sibling got the black quill, they Untransfigured it to another note, instructing the reader to go to the farthest corridor at the end of the fifth floor, re-Transfigure the scroll into a black quill, and return it to the common room in which it had been hidden. They did so, and while inspecting the corridor, they found out the professors were already there. They also found Ben frozen in the cursed ice, but the professors saved him by casting the Fire-Making Spell, explaining that the cursed ice appeared to have developed resistance to the Knockback Jinx.
Jacob's sibling and Rowan searched the corridor once more and found a wall to be suspicious. They decided to ask Professor McGonagall to teach them the Revelio Charm. After learning, they returned to the corridor and used it to find the Vanished Stairs. The stairs led to another mysterious corridor, which ended in a kind of mist. Jacob's sibling used the Knockback Jinx to clear the mist and revealed a hidden door covered with ice. They tried opening it but Rowan got hurt by some flying ice, so Jacob's sibling sent Rowan to the Hospital Wing. When visiting Rowan, Jacob's sibling brought a book about Wendelin the Weird, much to Rowan's delight. Rowan confessed being quite shaken up by the incident in the corridor and suggested Jacob's sibling seeking help from someone more powerful, namely Bill Weasley, who Rowan held in great admiration.
After befriending Bill, Jacob's sibling taught Rowan some more spells. It was possible that Rowan helped them break into the Vault of Ice near the end of the school year.
During the beginning of their third year, Rowan was excited to go to visit Hogsmeade, and discussed their excitement with Nymphadora Tonks. They were also present when their head of house told Jacob's sibling that their grades were not good enough to be allowed to visit Hogsmeade.
Rowan accompanied Jacob's sibling on their first visit to Hogsmeade and the Three Broomsticks Inn, where they shared Butterbeer with Rubeus Hagrid while Jacob's sibling asked Madam Rosmerta about their brother's notebooks about the Cursed Vaults.
After Jacob's sibling acquired one of the notebooks, Rowan deciphered it and learned about a room where Jacob researched the Cursed Vaults.
Rowan possibly accompanied Jacob's sibling, Tulip Karasu and Barnaby Lee during their break-in of the Vault of Fear.
Rowan possibly accompanied Jacob's sibling, Charlie Weasley and Rubeus Hagrid during their break-in of the Forest Vault.
During Rowan's fifth year, they sometimes unofficially taught the History of Magic class during Professor Binn's frequent naps or inattention, due to their ambitions of becoming a professor at Hogwarts after graduation. Partly because of this, Roawn actually considered the subject their favourite, as it allowed them to practice their teaching technique.
Rowan was placed under the Imperius Curse (one of the Unforgivable Curses) by an unknown caster, causing them to behave completely out of character all of a sudden in the Clock Tower Courtyard. They then threatened Jacob's sibling with the message that "death was coming to Hogwarts", and threatened to kill one of the student's friends. They quickly incapacitated Barnaby Lee with a spell, but were then quickly stunned with the Knockback Jinx by Ben Copper. They were sent to the Hospital Wing after the incident.
During the 1989–1990 school year, their sixth year, Rowan proceeded to take N.E.W.T. level Transfiguration, Charms, Herbology, Potions, Care of Magical Creatures, and History of Magic.
Rowan's death at the hands of Rakepick
Sometime during the school year, Jacob's sibling, Merula Snyde, and Ben Copper went into the Forest Grove to intercept a possible meeting between Jacob and R, unknowingly being followed from a close distance behind them by Rowan. During the search, a swarm of dementors showed up, and circled the group. However, the Dark witch Patricia Rakepick Apparated into the vicinity and cast a powerful Patronus Charm, which warded off all of the dementors. She then engaged in a duel with the students, which was watched by Rowan. At some point in the duel, she cast a Killing Curse at Ben, intending to kill him. However, Rowan sacrificed their life by jumping in front of Ben, ending their life and saving that of their friends.
Hogwarts students and staff raising their wand as a tribute to Rowan
Rowan's death struck the entirety of Hogwarts as an extremely painful event and their death was mourned by all of their friends, who found it difficult to come to terms with their tragic loss. In particular to suffer were Jacob's sibling, Ben Copper, and Merula Snyde, all of whom had watched them die. A memorial service took place in the Great Hall, where Professor Dumbledore gave a brief eulogy of Rowan's life, aspirations and sacrifice before leading the students and staff in raising their wands as a tribute to Rowan.
Rowan's murder prompted a vengeful Jacob's sibling, Merula and Ben to form their own secret organisation to combat the malevolent "R" and get revenge on Rakepick for what she had done. The organisation was named Circle of Khanna in memory of Rowan.
Rowan had black hair, brown skin, and wore glasses. They tended to wear regular Hogwarts uniform robes most of the time, although they wore blue dress robes to the Celestial Ball. They were known to snore heavily.
Rowan Khanna was a voracious reader and aspired to be the youngest professor at Hogwarts. They were very driven towards their goal. They once said the only thing they enjoy more than reading is planning. Their favourite professor was Albus Dumbledore and their favourite game was Gobstones. Their favourite sweet was Sugar Quills.
Rowan was an incredibly brave, loyal, and selfless individual, shown by their loyalty towards their friends, mostly their best friend, Jacob's sibling. Ultimately, Rowan sacrificed their own life to protect Ben Copper, even though they deeply mistrusted him, from the Killing Curse cast by Patricia Rakepick at the Forbidden Forest during their sixth year.
Rowan also was a bit of a cheater, as they often cheated when playing Wizard's Chess with Jacob's sibling by distracting them and quickly changing the chess pieces, however that might have been because Jacob's sibling also did the same while playing gobstones with them.
The word "Rowan" comes from the Irish word "Ruadháin", which means "red-haired" or in this instance might be a British derivative for 'Rohan' - a common Indian first name. "Rowan" is also an epicene name which fits either gender. "Khanna" is a surname of members or descendants of members of the Khatri clan from the Indian Dhai Ghar community.
Rowan is also a type of wood used for wands.
Rowan during Transfiguration class in the game
Unlocking Rowan's clothing item
Penny was born in London, United Kingdom in 1972 or 1973, to a Muggle father and a Muggle-born witch mother. She had a younger sister named Beatrice, born four years after her.
In her childhood, Penny was shy and would keep to herself reading books and brewing potions alone before her grandmother Winifred Haywood, who started her interest in potions, encouraged her to open up by brewing potions with her and challenging her to games and scavenger hunts. However, this might contradict the establishment of Penny's parents parents being Muggle and Muggle-born, making all her grandparents theoretically non-magical, unless her father was actually a squib or Winifred was herself a squib although she would need the assistance of a witch or wizard to brew a potion or magically conceal writing in her letter to Penny.
Penny's family spent every summer in the countryside, where she also had a Muggle friend called Scarlett Sparks.
At some point in her childhood, her family lived in Wigtown, which lead to Penny becoming a lover of the Quidditch team Wigtown Wanderers. She owned posters of the team before she started attending Hogwarts. Her favourite player was Ethan Parkin.
Her family also owned a garden with red roses, which she tried to change to yellow.
In Herbology lessons, Penny shared that the Hogwarts greenhouses reminded her of Kew Gardens, where her father used to take her visit.
The 1984 Sorting ceremony, with Penny standing behind Tulip
In 1984, she began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was sorted into Hufflepuff. She became popular during her first year at school.
She was known for her impressive academic performance in Potions and her talent in Potion-making. She later befriended Jacob's sibling and helped them create the Sleeping Draught they needed to break into the locked room, where they were looking for the Cursed Vaults.
During the Hallowe'en Feast, she offered to help Jacob's sibling look for Dumbledore. Afterwards, with some convincing from Jacob's sibling, Penny agreed to brew a Wolfsbane Potion for Chiara Lobosca despite her intense fears, and eventually even became close friends with the fellow Hufflepuff, being the only student other than Jacob's sibling to whom Chiara revealed her secret of being a werewolf.
Jacob's sibling selected either Penny or Ben Copper to accompany them to the Locked Room in which there was cursed ice.
Penny would help Jacob's sibling many times in their search for the Cursed Vaults, including potentially joining them and Bill Weasley in breaking into one at the end of their second year.
Penny met Jacob's sibling in the courtyard and helped coming up with the Artefact Room for a haunt of Erling during his stay in Hogwarts. When Erling went on a tour of the castle with the Fat Friar, they met Penny and Jacob's sibling in the Charms Classroom. After the ghosts left, Penny worried about how Erling and Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington planned to have their Deathday parties on the same night. Penny and Jacob's sibling met Nick at the Great Hall to work on the invitations, and discussed how being a ghost would be like. The pair went on to deliver the invitations, one of which was for Myrtle Warren.
During the Teacher Appreciation Celebration Penny was tasked with getting to know Professor Snape and helped Jacob's sibling brainstorm ways for them to get to know Professor McGonagall better.
Penny encountering a boggart in the Hogwarts greenhouses, in the shape of a werewolf
In a summer before or in 1986, a tragedy happened that would change Penny's life. Penny's family were spending their usual summer in the countryside. One night, at a full-moon, Penny and her friend Scarlett Sparks went exploring outside the house and found a werewolf.
Ignorant of what the beast was, Scarlett was fascinated by it and wanted to follow it to see where it might go. Penny had her wand ready, but when the werewolf finally saw them, she was at first unable to react, and when she finally did, it seemed was too late already. The werewolf appeared to have killed Scarlett, resulting in Penny blaming herself for the death of her friend. In reality, however, Scarlett had actually survived and become a werewolf, though Penny was unaware of it at the time.
From then on, Penny's Boggart would change into a werewolf, and she even went that far as to brew a Forgetfulness Potion in her third year, intending to clear her mind of the guilt and pain she felt over her lost friend.
Penny helped Jacob's sibling train their Crup puppy; she did not get one herself because she could not bring it home, as her father was a Muggle.
During that year, she was especially excited to learn that Ethan Parkin was coming to visit Hogwarts to watch his daughter Skye play in the Inter-House Quidditch Cup final. She met him briefly when he came to the pre-match party to tell Skye and Jacob's sibling that the match was about to start. She got him to sign her copy of The Wonder of Wigtown Wanderers.
Penny helped to teach Jacob's sibling Beautification Potion to distract a Red Cap in the Forbidden Forest.
She was also attacked by a Dementor. Minerva McGonagall found her unconscious; Poppy Pomfrey speculates she may not have survived if not found just in time. At the Hospital Wing, she was visited by Nymphadora Tonks and Jacob's sibling. During the attack, she heard a wolf's howl and a girl's scream from her worst memory: Scarlett's supposed death.
Penny introduced Jacob's sibling to her younger sister, Beatrice Haywood
Penny excitedly introduced Jacob's sibling to her younger sister, Beatrice Haywood, who has just started her first year, at the Start-of-Term Feast. Penny voiced her concern about young Beatrice being eager to join Jacob's sibling on their adventures, and distracted her by asking her to give them the toy Puffskein she made for them. The Haywoods then left to tour the Hufflepuff common room to let Jacob's sibling catch up with their other friends.
The sisters' happiness together was short-lived, however. When Jacob's sibling was meeting with William Weasley and Merula Snyde to discuss the Cursed Vaults in the Three Broomsticks Inn, Penny burst in in a panic; Beatrice had gone missing. Penny feared she may have went into the Forbidden Forest because of the stories of curse-breaking she told her. The staff was already searching the castle, so the four of them searched the forest in pairs.
Fruitless in their search, they returned to the castle; Bill and Jacob's sibling watched in concern as Penny attempted to invent a potion - which even seventh-year Bill found more complex than anything he knew - that would grant her powerful Legilimency to locate Beatrice wherever she was. However, to her disappointment, it did not work. Jacob's sibling promised her that they would not give up.
Merula Snyde arrived saying she found Beatrice and led them to her - trapped in a painting in the Grand Staircase, leaving Penny devastated. Patricia Rakepick noted that Minerva McGonagall, Filius Flitwick and herself already tried every spell they knew to no effect, and that Beatrice's perception of reality was becoming increasingly distorted. In her last moments of full coherence, Beatrice asked Jacob's sibling to take care of Penny.
Penny spent part of History of Magic class brewing a potion at the back of the classroom, although the subject was considered so dull half the students decided to watch her and chat instead. She may ask Jacob's sibling to pass a note via paper plane to a fast-asleep Nymphadora Tonks. She revealed that her parents were so worried they considered sending her home, and that they were furious that Hogwarts were not doing more to save Beatrice.
Penny's life began to fall apart. Severus Snape, who considered her his best student, noted she was failing academically and had became resigned to being consumed by grief. Alarmed, Jacob's sibling resolved to help her stop becoming self-destructive. Even Merula Snyde reluctantly admitted to being concerned about her.
Jacob's sibling found her next to the portrait where Beatrice was trapped. Penny told them that Beatrice was scared, could not hear her and could only see her sometimes, and regretted letting her out of her sight and messing with the Cursed Vaults. Jacob's sibling reaffirmed their commitment to saving her, despite Penny expressing hopelessness. Penny was grateful for their support and asked them to meet her in the forest.
They found a unicorn horn as Penny believed it would be an ingredient in a potion she needed. They then found a pin cushion in Classroom 1B; Jacob's sibling used Reparifarge to transfigure it back to a porcupine so Penny could pluck its quills while they obtained Moonstone from Jae Kim as a favour, and the latter wondered why they were helping Penny.
In Herbology class, when they were preparing to gather Syrup of Hellebore, Penny asked Jacob's sibling why they were always so nice to her, prompting them to blurt out that they were attracted to her. Penny was shocked and speechless; she was too occupied with her sister's plight. Jacob's sibling understood and said it could wait until she was safe, and Penny promised they would talk after that. She also thanked them profusely for their help.
Penny revealed she planned on brewing a Draught of Peace to calm herself down.
Penny thought the Fat Friar might be of help, although he directed them to Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington instead for their search on Marauder's Map.
Penny was present in the meeting called to discuss the vault portrait. However, when the conversation descended into a chaotic argument, the normally sociable Penny was uncharacteristically the only person out of the group of eleven to remain completely silent throughout. She was absent in a later meeting of Jacob's sibling's friends to catch up, where Rowan attacked the others under the control of the Imperius Curse.
Penny asked Jacob's sibling to meet her at the Grand Staircase and informed them another student was pulled into a portrait, a third-year that they did not know, and that Beatrice could not hear her any more. She stressed the importance of breaking the curse and asked them what to do if she were to find the vault before they did.
Penny possibly joined Jacob's sibling and his friends into the Buried Vault.
While Jacob's sibling was upset that their brother left them again, they were glad Penny and Beatrice were reunited. Penny asked them to meet up at the Courtyard. The sisters were very happy to be together again, and Penny said they spent much time outside after Beatrice was trapped for so long and thanked them. They discussed Beatrice's ordeal, with Penny and Jacob's sibling reassuring her. Penny expressed her pain in being torn apart from her sister, before catching herself and apologising, remembering what happened with Jacob. When Beatrice expressed fear over a professor turning out to be evil and Penny tried to reassure her, Jacob's sibling was reminded of Merula, prompting them to leave to visit her.
Penny attended the party at the Three Broomsticks Inn for Bill's graduation, and appeared concerned when Alastor Moody took Jacob's sibling away with Side-Along Apparition, although she, along with everyone else except Rowan and Rosmerta, had already left when Jacob's sibling returned.
Penny was with Jacob's sibling when they found a crowd in the courtyard; Emily Tyler had stolen Ismelda Murk's diary and reading out loud all about her crush on Barnaby Lee and mocking her. Penny became upset at the scene and asked Jacob's sibling what they should do. Later, she would mention that she told Professor McGonagall about Emily's behaviour.
When Ismelda's confession did not go well on the oblivious Barnaby, she stormed off. Penny and Jacob's sibling found Ismelda and Jae Kim at the Grand Staircase, and realised she planned to use a love potion on Barnaby and Penny speculated whether she should brew an antidote.
Penny and Jacob's sibling confronted Ismelda and Penny pleaded her not to use it as Jae excused himself.
In a Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Jae wondered if Penny would tell a professor about what he did. After class, Ismelda talked Jacob's sibling and accepted her rejection fairly evenly.
Penny studied for her Ordinary Wizarding Levels this year. Due to Beatrice's situation, Penny found it very difficult to focus on her revision and considered buying cheating equipment from Jae Kim out of desperation. However, Jae had previously mentioned to Jacob's sibling that most cheaters are caught and disqualified, but he did not care; when Penny arrived to meet him, Jacob's sibling firmly told them to not make any transaction, and later helped Penny with her revision instead.
At the Start-of-Term Feast in 1989, Penny wondered where Beatrice was.
Penny found Jacob's sibling and Merula blasting dummies after Merula swore revenge on Rakepick, and wondered why they were doing that in the dark. Merula lashed out at Penny for "judging" her and said she hated Penny and everyone. Penny was taken aback, but Jacob's sibling assured Penny that Merula was in a bad mood. Penny wanted to talk about Beatrice; she met with Jacob's sibling at the Three Broomsticks, clearly saddened. While hesitant, with some coaxing, she told Jacob's sibling that Beatrice spent the summer sulking, trying to act older than she was, and becoming distant from her. Beatrice had been avoiding Penny and hanging out with a new crowd. Jacob's sibling promised to talk to Beatrice.
They found Beatrice with Ismelda Murk at the courtyard. When Jacob's sibling approached, Beatrice immediately rolled her eyes and said that Penny had got to them. They argued, and Beatrice was not swayed and told them to let her be.
Jacob's sibling received a message that "Miss Haywood" needed them, incorrectly assuming it was Penny, but it was actually Beatrice who wanted them to witness the first victim of the Statue curse.
Beatrice asked Jacob's sibling to meet them at the Artefact room, where she told them to tell Penny to back off, saying she did not want to talk to her. However, Penny found them and confronted Beatrice about skipping the classes she had to retake due to being trapped for much of her first year, leading to a heated argument. Jacob's sibling attempted to excuse themself, but was stopped by both sisters. They continued to bicker with Jacob's sibling trapped between the saddened and worried Penny and the angry and rebellious Beatrice.
Despite Jacob's sibling asking them not to, they are forced to take a side. Regardless of their choice, they could not stop the argument from escalating until Beatrice yelled at Penny that she wished she was not her sister and that she would "disappear", before storming out of the room, leaving Penny and Jacob's sibling shocked. Realising that it reminded them of Jacob, Penny apologised and attempted to console them, but they were distracted by a missing skull which they deduced may be stolen by Ben.
Bill Weasley teaching DADA during Penny's sixth year
When Bill Weasley returned to help the Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Penny said it was great to see him again, but expressed reservations about Ben's new daredevil attitude. Penny was the first to voice support for his extra lessons, to help protect her sister and friends. During the lesson, she wondered how Bill had been since the last vault.
When Jacob's sibling followed a trail to track down Jacob, Penny in the library commented she saw someone looking like him in there.
Penny met Jacob's sibling at the courtyard, where she was eager to introduce them to Cedric Diggory, but she noticed they were upset. Jacob's sibling explained they saw Jacob but he left them again, and his warning that an assassin is after them, to Penny's sympathy and shock. Jacob's sibling changed the subject back; they met Cedric and Penny said he was "cool", talked about among Hufflepuffs, and modest. Penny apologetically declined helping with the investigation as she was to introduce Cedric to the Potions Club.
On the way of their hunt for Sickleworth, Jacob's sibling and Diego Caplan came across Beatrice and Ismelda tossing Puffskeins, and Beatrice accused them of spying on her for Penny, although they denied doing so. While searching, Jacob's sibling complained about Penny not helping them and Diego echoed with his disbelief that Penny would hold such a high opinion of Cedric. When Diego left to practice his duelling, Beatrice volunteered to help to prove to Penny that Hogwarts was unsafe; when they had a hard time finding Sickleworth, Beatrice mentioned how hard it was for her to hide from Penny. They then discussed Jacob and compared their relationships with their older siblings.
When Jacob's sibling was meeting with Jae Kim and Andre Egwu to discuss a gift for a special client, Penny could be heard in the background worried that Beatrice was considering a nose ring. When Tonks jokingly suggested to put Rowan on trial for being too depressing in a History of Magic lecture on the Salem Witch Trials, Penny said it was not Rowan's fault it is so sad.
Jacob's sibling met Penny at the Three Broomsticks. Penny told them that Beatrice was still ignoring her, while Beatrice could be seen hanging out with Merula and Ismelda on the other side of the pub. Jacob's sibling told her of the death threat on one of their friends. Contrary to some others reactions, Penny was firm that the threat would not scare her from being their friend. Jacob's sibling had to convince her to brew a love potion for a deal they made in order to obtain an Invisibility Cloak for their plan to sneak into the Ministry of Magic to retrieve Patricia Rakepick's dark artefacts before the latter could. Penny was very apprehensive about the potion, and may bring up Ismelda's fiasco with attempting to use a love potion on Barnaby last year; she became even more agitated when Jacob's sibling mentioned sneaking into the Ministry, as she feared they would be thrown into Azkaban for the infraction. After finally being convinced, she requested Jacob's sibling to gather the ingredients.
She apparently told Barnaby Lee that Muggle parents put up good grades of their children on fridges, although the latter said his parents were in Azkaban and they did not have a fridge. When Jacob's sibling and Rowan Khanna got reacquainted and reconciled at the Hogsmeade station, the latter mentioned that they knew Jacob's sibling would become popular when Penny befriended them.
Jacob's sibling went to the Artefact Room with the ingredients for a love potion, but was surprised by Penny's uncharacteristically flat, stony attitude and asked her what was wrong. Penny told them that due to their request, she had been thinking about the matter of love; contrary to what she previously thought, she had come to the decision that the best way to show Beatrice that she loved her was to give her space. However, during the conversation, Jacob's sibling let slip about resenting their brother for leaving them again. When Andre Egwu came in saying Alistair Fidgen was impatient, Penny bottled up the love potion quickly for the trade.
Jacob's sibling updated Penny and Charlie on the situation of a dark wizard escaping and likely coming after them. Charlie pointed out all their friends and their siblings may also be in danger. Penny, who was busy being worried about Jacob's sibling, did not think of that and started to reconsider her stance on Beatrice and her safety. When Charlie blamed Jacob's sibling for bringing danger to them, an angry Ben used Langlock on him. Penny was shocked and concerned; after Jacob's sibling used the General Counter-Spell to stop it, Charlie and Ben started yelling at each other and Penny begged them not to fight. However, Ben refused her attempts at reconciliation and told them to leave while he wanted to prove himself.
At Poppy Pomfrey's request, Jacob's sibling asked Penny to help brew some Pepperup Potion. They thought Penny looked anxious and offered to do it themselves. While brewing, Penny revealed that she checked on Beatrice because of the threat of the escaped dark wizard, which led to another argument and their relationship becoming even worse than before. They also talked about Jacob, and Jacob's sibling responded with a more positive attitude, which also cheered Penny up.
Snape found the two and told them to go to the Hospital Wing for an emergency. When they rushed in, they found that Pomfrey has been petrified. Cedric was at the scene, but was too shaken to recount his story, until Penny emphasised with him, saying her sister was trapped in a portrait and that Jacob's sibling helped her cope. After his account, Penny said how this curse was the worst of all.
After a DADA tutoring session, Bill asked Jacob's sibling, Ben, Merula, and either Penny or Charlie to stay behind to discuss the Cursed Vaults.
When Beatrice and Jacob's sibling met Jae at detention, Jae was surprised at how "Penny's little sister" looked so different. During detention, Beatrice said Penny would never get into detention. After they finished working, Penny came into the kitchens to give Jacob's sibling a message, and was shocked to see Beatrice there. Depending on their previous choice, either Jae let slip what Jacob's sibling and Beatrice were up to and their encounter with the Wizard in white robes, or Jacob's sibling explained themself. Penny became incredibly worried and upset hearing the story, but Beatrice stormed off and Penny told Jacob's sibling to leave because Talbott Winger needed to see them urgently.
With the students confined in the castle as the Wizard in white robes was spotted nearby with Dementors hunting for him, Penny asked Professor Flitwick to teach her the Patronus Charm, but he refused.
When students and staff gathered to mourn the death of Rowan Khanna, Penny could be seen weeping openly next to Jacob's sibling. If Penny did not go to the Buried Vault, she would say she knew why Rowan was in the forest. After Dumbledore's eulogy, they would meet at the corridor, where Penny may say she could burst into tears any moment. Penny revealed she told what she knew about 'R' and their threat to Rowan, which made the latter resolve to protect Jacob's sibling and thus followed them into the forest, and Penny blamed herself for Rowan's death. However, Jacob's sibling would blame themself or Rakepick.
Penny seemed to have a particularly hard time deal with her grief, not helped by Beatrice still refusing to talk to her. When the rest of their friends decided to go to Hogsmeade, Penny wanted to stay back with Beatrice but the latter told her to go. Beatrice said she wanted to help at the Hospital Wing and Penny should be with her friends; Penny was surprised at and appreciative of her empathy and maturity. Beatrice said she did not need Penny and asked Penny to take care of herself, expressed sympathy to Penny over her friend's death, and then burst into sobs; Penny pulled her into a big hug.
Penny was at Three Broomsticks when Jacob's sibling got everyone's attention and they began to reminiscence over Rowan. Afterwards, Penny and Charlie caught up with Jacob's sibling alone next to the fireplace, and the latter admitted they did not remember the last time they hung out with Rowan. Jae approached them and reminded them of the time they spent at the Hogsmeade Station, which cheered them up a little.
Penny became a founding member of the Circle of Khanna, a group devoted to avenging Rowan Khanna and locating the final cursed vault. It was at the groups first meeting in the Hog's Head Inn that she learned more of the malevolent organisation "R" and its motives to locate the final Cursed Vault before them. Penny and Charlie already knew some of it and convinced others of its threat. Upon Ben revealing the name of the society, Penny began to cry again, saying that she thought she was done crying; Charlie told her it would only be done when 'R' was dealt with.
Beatrice, who was not in the group, was found with Ismelda and Merula talking about the issue. Jacob's sibling may choose to tell Penny of her involvement, or not. Ismelda and Merula were against letting Penny know, but Penny walked in, having learned where Beatrice was from Cedric. Penny said losing Rowan made her realise how easily she could lose someone. She apologised to Beatrice for not understanding her and pleaded her not to push her away this time. Ismelda made a slightly snide comment about Penny being weepy, but Beatrice defended her, and said she wanted Penny to stay.
When Jacob's sibling was meeting Chiara Lobosca in the Great Hall, Penny said it was nice to talk to Beatrice again, and Jae mentioned Penny was teaching Circle of Khanna's concealment and disguises team Polyjuice Potion.
If Jacob's sibling was not sure about being Alanza Alves's guide, they would suggest Penny instead, but Jacob's sibling would agree to be her guide at Dumbledore's insistence.
When Jacob's sibling and Alanza Alves arrived at a meeting between Penny, Merula, Ismelda and Beatrice, Penny welcomed her warmly. Penny was not comfortable about the others stealing ingredients, but conceded it was the only way. She was surprised that Alanza recognised they were making Felix Felicis. Beatrice revealed Penny had the idea to use it to gain an advantage over Rakepick. Penny apologised for everyone being on edge and said she wished Alanza came at a better time.
Penny practised duelling against Talbott Winger in the second meeting of the Circle of Khanna, among the other members.
She attended an unusually late Astronomy class where Jacob's sibling, Ben, and Merula discussed the constellation of Cetus, but Penny slept through much of it.
While searching for clues at the Boathouse with Charlie, Jacob's sibling saw a bunch of ropes and joked that Penny got the idea of her braids from them.
When Jacob and Jacob's sibling found Beatrice floating unconscious in the lake, they brought her to the Hospital Wing. When Penny and Jacob's sibling visited her, she said she went to the lake because she had been having nightmares, saw a giant tentacle and dived in to possible find out more about the last cursed vault. When Jacob's sibling and Penny were alone, the former suggested asking Snape to figure out Beatrice's nightmares.
Before the third meeting of the Circle of Khanna, Penny caught up with Beatrice and Jacob's sibling and learned how they are managing to move on together.
Penny, along with Beatrice, Ismelda, Barnaby, and Ben, were asked by Merula to learn the Shield Charm from Jacob's sibling and join them in visiting the Whomping Willow, but they were interrupted by Argus Filch.
Jacob's sibling convinced Penny to brew Polyjuice Potion to infiltrate 'R' and gathered the ingredients with her.
Penny and Jacob's sibling met with Chiara Lobosca and Diego Caplan in the greenhouse to discuss the plan, and both Chiara and Diego had their reservations. Chiara also mentioned fluxweed needed to be picked under a full moon. They gathered knotgrass in the greenhouse together.
Penny met Jacob's sibling in the library and told them Snape prevented her from gathering the powdered Horn of Bicorn, although Jacob's sibling was confident they could get around him. They also needed Moste Potente Potions and Penny mentioned hearing someone tricking Madam Pince to get into the Restricted Section not long ago. When asked, Jacob's sibling may tell the truth, or lie which would be immediately exposed by a nearby student, at which Penny would ask them to be honest with her in the future. Jacob's sibling cast blue sparks and distracted Pince while Penny got the potion recipe, which landed Jacob's sibling in detention again. They later brewed the Polyjuice Potion together.
Penny at the Celestial Ball in her dress robes
Penny, in her Celestial Ball dress robes and hairstyle, served as the model painted by Badeea Ali and Barnaby Lee, standing still on a table on the Training Grounds, although their Polyjuice plan was still on her mind. They were joined by Andre Egwu, Alanza Alves, and Jacob's sibling after Alanza proposed a painting break from their Circle of Khanna business. Afterwards, as Andre, Alanza and Jacob's sibling discussed their further plans, Penny came to observe the paintings with Badeea and Barnaby.
Jacob's sibling arrived at the Artefact Room to pick up the Polyjuice Potion from Penny and go over the plan with her. After the infiltration and the subsequent fight, Jacob's sibling called another meeting at the Hog's Head where Penny praised their courage. Jacob's sibling also revealed to everyone present that there is a mole working for 'R' in Hogwarts.
Penny was among the seven Circle of Khanna members to review the Bubble-Head Charm in preparation for the vault in the lake.
Penny was in the audience at Weird Sisters' concert at the lakeshore intended to appease the Merpeople.
After Jacob's sibling's visit to the Merpeople village, they, along with Penny, Chiara, and Talbott, reviewed the experience and discussed obtaining the items to appease the Merqueen.
Penny was among the Circle of Khanna members at the meeting to announce Patricia Rakepick's defeat and the breaking of the final curse. She was first seen chatting with Liz Tuttle, and later expressing that she was glad she could help with the Polyjuice Potion.
Penny and Alanza Alves joined Jacob's sibling in planning a party to celebrate the breaking of all curses. The three of them helped out at the Three Broomsticks to convince Rosmerta to let them host the party there. She was later seen at the party dancing to Weird Sisters' performance.
Jacob's sibling called a meeting with several Circle of Khanna members intending to expose Merula Snyde's apparent treachery. Before they could however, Penny suggested disbanding the Circle due to Rakepick's defeat, and spoke for the group's desire to go back to a more normal school life, discouraging Jacob's sibling from telling them.
Penny witnessed the wandless duel between Merula and Jacob's sibling, which the latter lost despite Penny voicing her confidence in them.
When Jacob's sibling uncovered the plot of Zenith Xeep's memory-erasing potion, they asked Penny for help, and they developed a counter-serum under Snape's instruction. The counter-serum was effective, and as a side effect caused the user's hair to replicate the qualities of whatever hair is put into it.
Penny Haywood, the quintessential Hufflepuff
Penny had blue eyes, pale white skin and long blonde hair with two thick braids over her shoulders, and a braid on her left side that formed a ponytail, giving her a half up. She often styled her hair differently for special occasions, including a crown braid for Celestial Ball, a French braid for her potential first date with Jacob's sibling, and a side French braid for Valentine's Day and the Romance Festival. She would sometimes use magic to braid her hair when in a hurry.
Penny adorned different garments to special occasions (including her white and yellow dress robes at the Celestial Ball). True to her house's colours, those outfits always featured yellow prominently (with the sole exception of the Valentine's Day Ball), which was also her favourite colour. However, she otherwise almost never wore anything other than her plain robes, as the standard Hogwarts uniform that is not modified or accessorised in any way, even outside class.
This was in contrast to many of her schoolmates, including her dormitory mates Nymphadora Tonks and Chiara Lobosca, who almost never wore the school robes outside of school. Similarly, although she would eventually gift Jacob's sibling with a potion belt when they became very close friends, she was never seen wearing it, unlike Chiara's necklace or Rowan Khanna's glasses. In her seventh year she began wearing a casual outfit with a white shirt, blue denim jacket, yellow skirt and boots.
Penny was often considered attractive, whether by a friend like Jacob's sibling or the usually mean-spirited Ismelda Murk. Nymphadora Tonks claimed that Penny was pretty enough to repel a Red Cap without the need of a Beautification Potion. It has also been hinted that she had been asked out for dates by her schoolmates many times by some point in her fourth year.
Penny had a somewhat shrill voice, and was prone to shrieks when startled or very excited. Multiple people mistook her screaming as that from a banshee.
Penny was sociable, approachable, and pleasant; regarded as the most popular girl in her year while attending Hogwarts. As a result of her social standing and vast network of friends, she was also very well-informed about the happenings at Hogwarts. Penny was often excitable, eager to hang out and help friends, and sometimes easily distracted.
Penny's cheerful demeanour
She was known to value bravery and compassion greatly, thanking Jacob's sibling for having the courage to stand up to the school bully Merula Snyde. She even befriended Jacob's sibling shortly thereafter due to, in part, their kindness towards Ben Copper and their shared love for potions. She was very empathetic and often expressed sympathy at the plight of others, even to shunned and bullied students, and often attempted to mediate arguments. She was also good friends with Liz Tuttle and Talbott Winger, who were both considered outcasts, showing that despite her popularity, she was still humble, decent and treated others very respectfully.
She also befriended Chiara Lobosca and helped her manage her condition, despite Penny's crippling fear of werewolves. She was empathetic even to the frequently antagonistic Merula Snyde and Ismelda Murk, willing to help them out of serious trouble. This stood in direct contrast to Gryffindor Emily Tyler, who called Penny "too nice"; Emily's popularity depended largely on her bullying and teasing of students she didn't like, and others only hung out with her so she wouldn't bully them. Other Hufflepuffs in her year liked Penny a lot and even said that if someone was Penny's friend, they are their friend. Some of them pretended to do poorly at Herbology just so that Penny would help them.
Apart from her incredible popularity and kindness, Penny was also very intelligent and magically gifted, as proven by her talents in potion-making, which was rivalled by very few of her fellow students, and was also competent with charm-work. While sweet-natured, she could also be a fierce and fearless protector of her friends and especially her younger sister she dearly loved.
She was an avid fan of Quidditch, especially Wigtown Wanderers, her adopted hometown team, to the point that she would paint her face to the same house colour as Skye Parkin, the new Quidditch Chaser from the fabled Parkin Family. Although she would never use Felix Felicis to cheat, she liked to recite the potion's ingredients as her way of wishing for luck, and ate horseradish for a week before a big Quidditch match because it was one of them. In sharp contrast to her usually pacifistic demeanour, Penny was an advocate of rough play in Quidditch, to the point Jacob's sibling described her as "bloodthirsty".
A classic Hufflepuff, Penny was dedicated, loyal, and hardworking; however, she did exhibit darker aspects of her personality. She reacted very poorly to Merula Snyde stealing her credit, was sometimes prone to reckless potion-taking in stress or grief, and she could be stubborn and resistant to change. Her strong attachment to those close to her could cause her to be overprotective, excessively dedicated to the detriment of herself, or becoming an emotional wreck from loss.
Penny could be talkative and gossipy, occasionally saying things she did not mean to. She let slip about Andre's grandmother being ill, and told Jacob's sibling they don't understand how she felt about Beatrice being trapped in a painting, despite their brother having been missing for years. However, she almost immediately realised that it was insensitive and apologised. While usually one to revel in the spotlight, she did occasionally feel the social pressure of her popularity and could be insecure about how she looked.
In her earlier years, she found it exciting that Jacob's sibling would invite her to dangerous adventures while others only invite her to parties; the tragic murders of two of her close friends and her sister's imprisonment and subsequent falling out affected her deeply. She suffered from chronic nightmares, and dipped into depression and occasional fearfulness (possibly exhibiting symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder). Despite all this, with the help of her friends, her good nature always ultimately pulled through.
Penny making an experimental potion in the Potions Classroom
Penny is an English diminutive of the Greek name Penelope, which is derived from "pēnē" meaning woven cloth and "lepō" meaning "to peel", so basically Penny means "unraveling cloth". The name is most commonly associated with a character from Odyssey Odyssey, by the ancient Greek author and poet Home, who was a cunning weaver.
Haywood is a habitational name from any of various places, for example in Herefordshire, Nottinghamshire, Shropshire, and Staffordshire, so-called from Old English (ge)hæg "enclosure" + wudu "wood". It was a common practice in the Middle Ages for areas of woodland to be fenced off as hunting grounds for the nobility.
Penny and Jacob's sibling in the "Back To Hogwarts" trailer
Penny's potion belt
Original concept art of Penny Haywood
Talbott Winger was a wizard who attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1984 and was Sorted into Ravenclaw house. He was also an Animagus and took the form of an Eagle. At some point in the 1970s or early 1980s, his parents were murdered by Death Eaters.
Talbott was born at some point in 1972 or 1973. He did not have any siblings. His mother taught him how to become an Animagus, taking the form of an eagle. During the First Wizarding War, his parents helped in the war efforts against Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters.
In response, the Dark Lord's Death Eaters attacked their home, a conflict during which both of his parents were murdered while Talbott himself successfully escaped with his life thanks to his Animagus ability.
Talbott started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on 1 September 1984 and was Sorted into Ravenclaw and excelled in Transfiguration. He also helped Care of Magical Creatures Professor Silvanus Kettleburn tame a Hippogriff once, a feat also achieved by Jacob's sibling in their fourth year.
In or prior to the 1986–1987 school year, he admitted the truth to Minerva McGonagall. While she understood his initial reasons for keeping it secret perfectly (namely the fear that if he registered, the Death Eaters might learn of it and come after him), she nevertheless sternly instructed him to abide by the law that all Animagi had to register with the British Ministry of Magic, to which he half-heartedly agreed.
During his third year, Talbott took Divination as an elective.
He helped Jacob's sibling become an Animagus at the beginning of this year. During Jacob's sibling's and Talbott's talk with McGonagall, she proclaimed that if he did not agree, she "will take it as a personal offence and drag him to the Ministry myself". He later told Jacob's sibling about his parents' murder after they beat him at Gobstones. After wishing them luck on becoming an Animagus, he changed into his Animagus form and flew away.
Around the anniversary of his parents' murder, he lost his necklace, whose feather had been extracted from his mother's Animagus form, a White Swan. This made him extremely upset and he became more isolated than ever. Upon learning about this from Penny Haywood, Jacob's sibling helped him find the necklace. They made use of their advantage of transforming into animals and eventually decided it was in Filch's office or being played with by Mrs Norris. They saw Mrs Norris with the necklace, and Jacob's sibling transformed into their Animagus form to distract her while Talbott retrieved the necklace. Talbott befriended Jacob's sibling after this experience.
At some point, someone told him Garrick Ollivander owned a peacock. He later told Jacob's sibling about this in the Hogwarts Library.
Around Valentine's Day, Talbott was one of the six students chosen by Gilderoy Lockhart as a part of the Voyages, Vampires, and Valentines! event, seemingly at random. Talbott was given the task to find doves. As he was searching for them in the Clock Tower Courtyard, Jacob's sibling came to see how he was doing. The two searched for doves together but were unable to find any. After giving up on the search, Talbott told them that he was suspicious of Lockhart's true intentions, and that he suspected Lockhart knew he was an Animagus. Talbott also confessed to Jacob's sibling that he wanted them to be his Valentine. He later attended the event with the other students, wearing a pink outfit with a tie, designed by Andre Egwu. During the event, Lockhart cast a Memory Charm in hesitation, causing him and the other students to lose some of their recent memories.
Later during the same school year, when Jacob's sibling went into the Great Hall to discuss Potions with their friend Penny Haywood, the best in their year at that subject, he was seated at his house table, where he cryptically warned them that he thought "there [was] a storm coming...", suggesting he might have known something more about the events going on at the school than the average student.
In his fifth year, Talbott came to talk to the Grey Lady alongside Jacob's sibling and their other Ravenclaw friends Tulip Karasu and Andre Egwu.
During the Equinox Enchanted school play, he was sad as he didn't get to perform the scene of love with Jacob's sibling. However, he sat in the front row during Jacob's sibling's performance and cheered them on.
Near the end of the school year, Talbott was in the Great Hall when it was almost time for him and the other fifth years to take their O.W.L.s, at which time he admitted to being anxious about getting a good score on his exams, as he harboured aspirations of becoming an Auror.
Talbott Winger continued taking Divination classes in his sixth year.
Following the murder of Rowan Khanna at the hands of Patricia Rakepick in the Forbidden Forest, Talbott became a member of the student organisation the Circle of Khanna, in memory of the deceased student. He also helped Jacob's sibling various times (which, granted, still took some convincing) in his Animagus form.
Talbott's appearance
In his human form, Talbott had dark brown and blond straight hair, dark skin and striking hazel eyes, with pouty lips, thick eyebrows and an angular face.  In his Animagus form, he took the form of a brown Eagle, sometimes with a cream chest.
Talbott was a remarkably skilled and intelligent young wizard, who possessed many traits of Ravenclaws, in particular intelligence and individuality. He was known to be an extreme introvert and a loner, and before befriending Jacob's sibling, his only friends were Penny, Tonks, and despite being the Head of Gryffindor House: Professor McGonagall, due to her being a fellow Animagus (cat) and her previous work in the Ministry of Magic. Talbott Winger was academically minded, and was very passionate about his schoolwork, as he wished to become an Auror, showing him to have been very ambitious in his life goals. He was also rather perceptive and intuitive, as shown when he warned Jacob's sibling about bad things that were going on, implying he knew much more about the dark happenings that were going on during his school time than the average student did. Due to his reserved personality, Talbott often talked to himself, and also possessed a rather unique gift for forging handwriting. He was also shown to be sarcastic and witty, as seen in his interactions with Jacob's sibling.
Talbott Winger in his Animagus form
Chiara was the only child of an Arithmancer and an Obliviator. When Chiara was seven, werewolf Fenrir Greyback bit her, causing her to become a werewolf as well. Greyback tried to recruit her for his army, but was driven away by Chiara's parents.
At some point after that event, Chiara befriended her neighbour Selina. The first time they met was when Chiara's mother took her to a library where she could play with Muggle children. When she was bullied and called "Grandma Chiara" due to silver hair being uncommon among Muggles, Selina stood up for her, telling her to be proud of its uniqueness. 
They became best friends, so close that when Chiara told Selina that she was a werewolf, Selina was not afraid at first. However, after Selina witnessed one of Chiara's transformations, she was terrified, and did not come near Chiara anymore due to her fear. Eventually, Chiara asked her mother to Obliviate Selina so Selina would no longer live in fear. Following this, Chiara avoided contact with other people.
In 1984, Chiara began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was sorted into Hufflepuff where she shared a dorm with Penny Haywood and possibly Nymphadora Tonks. Headmaster Albus Dumbledore was aware of her condition and arranged for Professor Snape to brew the newly discovered wolfsbane potion to control her transformations, though he was only able to brew one dose at a time due to an Aconite shortage.
Chiara was very interested in healing magic, and hoped to one day become a healer at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. In her spare time, she volunteered at the Hospital wing, which Madam Pomfrey greatly appreciated.
At some point during her time at Hogwarts, as she was leaving the Forbidden Forest, Borf, a cub from the Forbidden Forest wolf pack, followed her. The cub continued living in the Forbidden Forest but occasionally visited her.
During a Hallowe'en Feast, she was attacked by Fenrir Greyback and two werewolves. The following day, she met up with Jacob's sibling and Cecil Lee to look for werewolves. Later, at nighttime, Chiara and Rubeus Hagrid showed Borf to Jacob's sibling and Cecil. Shortly afterwards, Chiara told Jacob's sibling that she was a werewolf, a secret she had not told anyone at Hogwarts before.
At some point, Chiara met Remus Lupin while he was foraging for potion ingredients in the Forbidden Forest, hoping to create his own Wolfsbane Potion, despite his relative lack of skill in potions. As they got to talking she felt kinship with him and, realising that he had never experienced a peaceful transformation, began giving him her potion dose, claiming that it was a spare.
Later, rumours began spreading around Hogwarts that a student had been attacked by a white werewolf during the last full moon and she began to fear that she may have been the perpetrator, though she didn't remember doing so. She began to quietly investigate the rumours, though she was afraid of the answers. Jacob's sibling also began investigating the rumours and sought her help. She was initially reluctant to do so, out of fear of getting too close, but eventually agreed.
Though she didn't know the name of the student, she discovered it by searching the infirmary files in the Hospital Wing while Jacob's sibling distracted Madam Pomfrey with a feigned illness. Afterwards the two questioned the student, Pippa Macmillan, and discovered that Pippa wasn't actually certain that it was a werewolf. She had been surprised by a white creature while exploring the Forbidden Forest and had later been discovered with claw like scratches on her arm, leading her to believe it had been a werewolf, but had been too terrified at the time to properly remember. After the two brewed a Memory Potion for her, Pippa recalled the truth: it hadn't been a werewolf that attacked her, but a white hippogriff. The claw-like scratches had been from a tree that she ran into while fleeing.
Despite her name being cleared, Jacob's sibling continued to investigate, curious as to why Chiara had thought she was the attacker in the first place. They eventually discovered the truth and met Lupin. When Chiara let slip that she had been giving away her own potion, Lupin thanked her for her sacrifice but refused to take any more from her. That night happened to be the full moon and Chiara transformed without the benefit of the potion. She attacked Jacob's sibling, but her friend managed to use their skills at duelling to drive her off into the forbidden forest where she completed that month's transformation safely.
In her third year, the 1986–1987 school year, Chiara took Divination as an elective.
The next year, she was talking to Jae Kim in the Training Grounds while Jacob's sibling and Rubeus Hagrid were gathering escaped Crups.
In the 1988–1989 school year, she was talking to Hagrid in the Clock Tower Courtyard while Jacob's sibling was duelling Ben Copper. She was also talking to Jae in the Great Hall around the same time.
When Xenophilius Lovegood announced a contest for a front-page photo of a magical creature on The Quibbler and prize of 87 Galleons, Ismelda Murk recruited some cronies in a secret attempt to hunt her down for being a suspected werewolf. She intended to capture Chiara with the Full Body-Bind Curse before the full moon to both win the prize and expose Albus Dumbledore for harbouring a werewolf on campus.
At the same time, ignorant to this danger, Chiara helped Jacob's sibling and Barnaby Lee look for a Crumple-Horned Snorkack as she needed the money for more Wolfsbane Potion. Ismelda's plot was thwarted by Jacob's sibling who used the Knockback Jinx to push Chiara out of harm's way, and then by Tulip Karasu and Nymphadora Tonks in a werewolf costume convincing Ismelda that there was no real werewolf in the school. Jacob's sibling, Barnaby and Chiara won the prize ultimately with a photo of a supposed Moon Frog (actually Sir Ribbithe having eaten Glow Bugs) and a Quintaped (which may have been Tulip and Tonks in disguise again).
When several jinxed Ever-Bashing Boomerangs were released in the Great Hall by Jacob's sibling, Nymphadora Tonks, Tulip Karasu and Jae Kim, she used the Shield Charm to protect herself and other students from the rogue boomerangs.
Later that same school year, shortly before the O.W.L.s, she was introduced to Rowan Khanna, a friend of Jacob's sibling. They met up in the Forbidden Forest with Hagrid in order to help Rowan calm down by letting them play with Borf. Chiara also told Jacob's sibling that she wanted to become a Healer and suggested this as a career option that Jacob's sibling could consider.
Chiara Lobosca in the Divination Classroom
Chiara continued taking Divination in her sixth year.
Chiara and Liz Tuttle spent time in the Forbidden Forest, where they interacted with Borf and a mysterious white eagle owl, named Artemis by Liz.
After Jacob's sibling was attacked by a wizard in white robes near the Black Lake, Chiara healed the student.
After the death of Rowan Khanna at the hands of Patricia Rakepick during the Duel in the Forest Grove, Chiara was invited to the meeting that established the Circle of Khanna, but did not attend as "something came up".
Chiara was swamped with work at the Hospital Wing after Madam Pomfrey was petrified. She also healed Cedric Diggory's broken arm after a training accident. When Jacob's sibling asked, she requested to talk to them privately - revealing that she was reluctant of risking letting others know she was a werewolf or harming them if she lost control, and took some convincing before agreeing to join.
Chiara was present at the second meeting of the Circle of Khanna, but she was uncertain what she had got herself into. She partnered with Jacob's sibling in Divination class and learned their plan to investigate Rowan's murder scene, informing them that it was a full moon. They reaffirmed their commitment to keeping each other's secrets. They later ran into Chiara in the Hospital Wing, where she asked them to be careful. When a savage werewolf attacked the group in the forest, it was chased off by Chiara in her in-control werewolf form.
Jacob's sibling and Chiara discussed their latest trip into the forest in the Hospital Wing, although Chiara was nervous as neither noticed Beatrice coming in and she hoped she did not overhear. Chiara was worried about Beatrice as she had been coming in and staring wordlessly at petrified students for days.
When Jacob and Jacob's sibling rescued Beatrice who nearly drowned in the lake, Chiara took care of her in the Hospital Wing.
Penny and Jacob's sibling met with Chiara and Diego Caplan in the greenhouse to discuss the plan, and both Chiara and Diego had their reservations. Chiara also mentioned fluxweed needed to be picked under a full moon. They gathered knotgrass in the greenhouse together.
While Jacob's sibling and Talbott Winger gathered the fluxweed in the forest under the full moon, Chiara watched over them in the shadows. When they finished gathering, Chiara appeared and howled at them; instantly on guard, Talbott pointed his wand at the werewolf, not knowing who it was, but Jacob's sibling interpreted that Chiara was warning them danger was coming and they needed to leave.
During a lecture on dream interpretation in Divination, Chiara commented that she already knew what her nightmares meant and did not want to share them.
Chiara aided Jacob's sibling in researching Merpeople at Flourish and Blotts for safer entry into the lake. Chiara found that Merpeople had a love for music and thus they planned to utilise that as a peace offering.
In the 1990–1991 school year, her seventh year, She and other seventh-years helped Madam Pomfrey treat students in the Hospital Wing that had been bitten by doxies, during a doxy infestation in the castle. Later she helped Jacob's sibling and Victor Ketsueki clear out an infestation of doxies and their eggs in the Hogwarts kitchens, to help stop them infesting the whole school. She later watched Jacob's sibling exterminate the Doxy Queen in the Prefects' Bathroom with Doxycide.
During this school year, she entered the seventh-year work experience programme at St Mungo's to learn how to become a healer. During her time at the hospital, she helped Jacob's sibling investigate the cause of the laughing curse and also helped Jacob's sibling discover who Burke was.
Chiara holding a jar of the fungus that caused Scrofungulus
She also procured a jar of the contagious fungus that caused Scrofungulus, for Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde in the Hospital Wing in order to give to them, as Merula planned on missing an upcoming Wizengamot trial but wanted a legitimate excuse to do so, by claiming she had the said disease by presenting the jar to the Wizengamot, She explained the nature of Scrofungulus to the pair and warned them not to open the jar, as it was highly contagious and could be quite fatal, having gained knowledge of it by helping in the Hospital Wing the previous school year.
In human form, she was a young girl with light skin and blue eyes. She has pale lips, grey eyebrows, and short silver hair. Outside of class, she almost always wore a grey top, blue jeans, dark grey boots, and a moonstone pendant around her neck, as well as carried a small, dark grey satchel on her right shoulder. In her werewolf form, her silver fur colour matched her human hair colour.
Chiara had a soft, mellow voice, and she was quieter than most of her peers.[citation needed]
In many ways, Chiara Lobosca was an embodiment of contradiction to werewolf stereotypes, as well as an ideal Hufflepuff. She was very calm and collected, and unfailingly altruistic and compassionate. Indeed, she was said to have a better bedside manner than Poppy Pomfrey, the matron of the Hospital Wing, with whom she had a good relationship. Admitting that Remus Lupin made her realise just how many innocent werewolves were suffering on a monthly basis, Lobosca's ambition was to discover a less expensive and painful means than the Wolfsbane Potion for werewolves around the wizarding world.
However, her werewolf status made her extremely insecure and timid, and very mistrustful and testy. She was initially sceptical and reserved about Jacob's sibling, though she eventually accepted them as a friend, making her comparable to Talbott Winger, another isolationist who struggled to open up.
Chiara was also quite bookish and often found solace in reading. As a side effect of managing her affliction, she had a good understanding of the moon phases and its implications, and had an interest in Astronomy by extension. She was also the only student in her class to take Divination seriously, and was always eager to learn.
In her spare time, Chiara enjoyed baking, listening to punk music, and looking after the wolf Borf, with whom she had an affectionate relationship. Chiara usually had an either serene, stoic or nervous demeanour; playing with Borf was one of the very few things known to make her laugh.
Professor Patricia Rakepick (b. c. 1956) was a Dark witch and a world-famous Curse-Breaker for Gringotts Wizarding Bank.
Educated at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, during her formative years she was an exceptional student, top of her class, who, regardless, was always in trouble. After Rakepick left school, she became a professional Curse-Breaker at Gringotts Wizarding Bank, and her curse-breaking adventures abroad eventually earned her some publicity: her exploits were featured in several newspaper articles and at least one biography was published.
In actuality, Rakepick also worked with the malevolent organisation known as R, during which she pushed the Hogwarts student Duncan Ashe to brew a potent Erumpent Potion, which resulted in Duncan's death, and attempted to enter the Buried Vault, the last major obstacle before the final Cursed Vault, but did not succeed. She was invited back to the school during the 1987–1988 school year by Professor Dumbledore, the school's Headmaster, to help put an end to the threat posed by the Vaults. At the end of the year, she accepted his offer to assume the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts instructor, where she offered more freedom and protection to Jacob's sibling during their search for the remaining Vaults.
However, by the end of the next year, Rakepick's true intentions were revealed. She manipulated Jacob's sibling to open the Buried Vault, and when Jacob's sibling and their friends discovered the truth, they managed to defeat Rakepick, forcing her to flee Hogwarts. Over the next year, she pursued her quest for the Cursed Vaults, and continued to come at odds with Jacob's sibling and their group. One of these encounters notably ended with Rakepick murdering Rowan Khanna. After a final confrontation with Jacob's sibling at the Sunken Vault, she was finally defeated and sent to Azkaban.
After almost a year of imprisonment and mental deterioration due to the Dementors, Rakepick attempted an escape of Azkaban during which she was briefly reunited with Jacob's sibling.
Patricia Rakepick was born sometime in late 1955 or early 1956.
Hogwarts, her old school
Patricia Rakepick attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1967 to 1974; she was Sorted into Gryffindor. Being gifted, she quickly proved to be the most outstanding student of her year and was always top of her class. While Professor Albus Dumbledore found her to be an exceptional pupil, she was nevertheless greatly disliked by most of her professors for her rebellious streak, a sentiment that did not improve when she, rather than being a good role model to her younger peers as she grew older, began mentoring them in the art of trouble-making. According to Rubeus Hagrid, during her student years, she was rumoured to be friendly with the Marauders (Remus Lupin, Peter Pettigrew, Sirius Black, and James Potter), whom Patricia to some extent mentored in mischief-making. Some of her teachers included Filius Flitwick and Rolanda Hooch: the former was determined to keep an open mind about Rakepick, whereas the latter had a very low opinion of her.
In her third year, she chose at least two electives: Care of Magical Creatures and Arithmancy. At some point in her student years, she asked the Care of Magical Creatures Professor, Silvanus Kettleburn, how to enter the Forbidden Forest without being seen, telling him she meant to explore the forest and study the creatures that dwelled within it, and expressing a desire to become a Magizoologist upon leaving school. Accepting this explanation, the professor explained that the easiest way for students to enter the forest undetected was by broom, revealing secrets about the forest he had learned from numerous years spent exploring it himself. Afterwards, she reportedly spent as much time in the forest as she did in the castle. According to Rubeus Hagrid, the school's Keeper of Keys and Grounds during her student years, she disappeared from the castle for days at the time on more than one occasion. During her many trips into the forest, she encountered one or more members of the local Centaur colony, a negative experience for both parties. Even in adulthood, she resented and distrusted centaurs in general, warning Jacob's sibling to be cautious of them. Patricia was a firm believer during her time at school that the Cursed Vaults existed, but the faculty did not heed her warning.
Given that she always was on top of her class, it is reasonable to assume she achieved good results in her O.W.L.s and N.E.W.T.s examinations, being more than qualified for her future career.
Gringotts Wizarding Bank
After leaving Hogwarts, Patricia Rakepick went on to work for Gringotts Wizarding Bank as a Curse-Breaker, having apparently been taken in by the allure of a "challenging career involving travel, adventure, and substantial, danger-related treasure bonuses". In the years that followed, she embarked on a number of daring expeditions to sites of historical sorcery, where she was in charge of breaking protective curses on old forgotten wizarding treasure and retrieving it. She had a Niffler, called Sickleworth, assigned to aid her in burrowing for gold at cursed sites.
Evidently a very efficient and gifted employee, her many curse-breaking adventures (involving a wide variety of dark and dangerous magical creatures, enchanted objects, and rivals alike) eventually won her both recognition and publicity. Over the years, a number of articles about her were published in the Daily Prophet: among them one claiming that she had at one point killed a Sphinx with her bare hands, and another stating that she once allegedly ripped the tail off a Manticore.
According to Severus Snape, she made a career out of eliminating her competition, leaving many who knew her by reputation only with the impression that she was not to be crossed.
At some point in her career, she met an American wizard who worked as an Auror for the Magical Congress of the United States of America, who advised her on the subject of constant vigilance and told her that there were "more than one way to skin a Kneazle", a sentiment she agreed with.
In due course, Rakepick became the best Curse-Breaker at Gringotts, being promoted to the post of Head Curse-Breaker, a role she held by at least in the mid-to-late-1980s. By then, she had come to enjoy a rather illustrious reputation as one of the foremost experts in curse-breaking that her field had to offer.
During the time span of the First Wizarding War, Rakepick also joined R, a secret and mysterious organisation, and worked towards their supposed goal of the pursuit of knowledge and justice. During Duncan Ashe, Olivia Green and Jacob's years at Hogwarts, which was between 1974 and 1981, Rakepick was made aware of a plan involving the brewing of the Erumpent Potion, which she wished for Duncan to do, but gave him the task indirectly through Jacob, letting him push Duncan to do the job. Thus, Olivia was initially not aware of Rakepick's involvement in this, but she overheard when Rakepick was talking about this to another member of R.
Rakepick preparing to cast spell
After Duncan died when brewing the potion, Olivia confronted Rakepick and admitted that she knew about her plan, which made Rakepick cast the Full Body-Bind Curse on Olivia and extract her memories of the whole event so that she wouldn't remember, and also that Rakepick would have insurance against R if they double-crossed her. The memories were put in vials in a chest, which was nearly a decade later hidden behind a painting in Rakepick's office when she was made the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor at Hogwarts.
While working with R, Rakepick also attempted to break into the Buried Vault with Jacob and Peter Pettigrew, but upon seeing the Hungarian Horntail that guarded the Vault, Pettigrew fled, leaving Rakepick and Jacob to face the dragon, and despite their best efforts, they failed to completely defeat it, but distracted it long enough for Jacob to use his Legilimency abilities to open the door. When Jacob was trapped in a portrait, Rakepick forcefully touched the centre column of the Vault, but instead of unlocking the supposed treasures inside, she was transported to the Forbidden Forest, ending the trip for her. This fiasco would continue to disturb her until another opportunity came years later.
In the 1986–1987 school year, as the Cursed Vaults at Hogwarts began posing a threat to the school, Albus Dumbledore spent some time searching for Madam Rakepick. He found her in Brazil, working at the wizarding school Castelobruxo, exploring the newly-discovered ruins underneath the building. Dumbledore invited her to join him at Hogwarts the following school year so she could look into the Cursed Vaults situation; she accepted.
Professor Dumbledore and Madam Rakepick in the Great Hall
Arriving at Hogwarts Castle alongside the students on 1 September 1987, Madam Rakepick entered the Great Hall shortly before the Start-of-Term Feast of the 1987–1988 school year, where she was greeted by and engaged in deep conversation with Professor Dumbledore. When it was time for the Headmaster's welcoming speech, however, Dumbledore took his usual place at the Owl Lecturn: addressing the students, he said that an important part of the learning process was to learn how to identify and overcome dangers, both seen and unseen, as a pretext to praise the older students for their bravery in the face of adversity in light of recent events at the school after someone had tampered with two of the Cursed Vaults and the hardships they all had endured because of it.
Rakepick addressing the students
While Dumbledore assured his charges that the staff would do their utmost to keep them safe, he also explained that neither he, nor the faculty, had all the answers; stepping aside so Madam Rakepick could take his place behind the lectern, Rakepick thanked the Headmaster for such a warm welcome, commenting on her own age-old disregard for the school rules being part of her surprise at his invitation. After a short introduction of her own, mentioning both her work at Gringotts and how her suspicions about the Cursed Vaults went all the way back to her own education at Hogwarts, she proceeded to affirm her intentions of finding the Cursed Vaults and unveil the secrets within — and urged the students to be forthcoming whenever she might need their assistance, but also also strongly advised them against trying to get in any way involved without her prior permission.
Charged with anything having to do with the Cursed Vaults, Madam Rakepick was notified when two students were placed in harm's way by wandering mindlessly into the Forbidden Forest, apparently while under the influence of a somnambulism of some sort. Recognising this as the same sleepwalking curse that had been unleashed on the school years ago, she visited the victims at the Hospital Wing: one was a young Gryffindor boy whose injuries were so severe that he was in no condition to provide her with any useful information; the other was a Ravenclaw girl named Tulip Karasu. Karasu was being visited by the ringleader of a group of students that she knew was greatly involved in breaking the curses placed on the last two Vaults that had been meddled with. Overhearing how they were discussing the Vaults and the reason why the curse would make students walk into the Forbidden Forest of all places, a question with potentially dangerous implications, Madam Rakepick finally made her presence known to the two young conspirators.
Rakepick visiting the sleepwalkers at the Hospital Wing
Intruding on their conversation, Madam Rakepick said she had been wondering the same thing since the last time the sleepwalking curse had sent students to their deaths via the dangerous beasts inside the forest. Confronted with her eavesdropping, however, she shifted the blame over to them by reminding them that, in no uncertain terms, the Cursed Vaults were no longer their concern. When Madam Rakepick learned the reason the visiting student wanted to find the Vaults was so they could find their brother Jacob, who had disappeared shortly after his expulsion for inadvertently endangering the school during his own search for the Vaults, Rakepick changed her mind, suggesting they could help each other. Telling Jacob's sibling that if they were to help her they should be aware of the dangers involved, Rakepick invited them to the Training Grounds to learn a new spell that would allow them to properly defend themselves. Rakepick then left to find Miss Karasu's, as she wished to discuss the latter's sleep-walking incident with in private.
Despite being world-famous, the school's resident social butterfly Penny Haywood did not recognise Rakepick by appearance prior to Dumbledore's introduction.
Rakepick mentoring Jacob's sibling
Already there when Jacob's sibling arrived for their lesson, Madam Rakepick, who by then had been informed by the staff that the pupil before her was quite gifted, decided to try and solidify their potential alliance by appealing to their shared experience of embarking on curse-breaking adventures and the understanding of the dangers involved. Going as far as to proclaim them a curse-breaker on equal footing as herself, she went on to emphasise the importance of self-defence. She then trained Jacob's sibling in the use of the Shield Charm, justifying teaching them it prematurely by arguing that "curse-breakers like themselves" might very well not be alive to learn it another time.
During the first part of the tutorial, Jacob's sibling practised casting the Shield Charm against Death Eater dummies while Rakepick observed and occasionally offered advice. After sensing that Jacob's sibling was capable enough, she decided to test them, dismissing their concerns that the Blasting Curse she wanted to use was potentially deadly; as a witch who lived for the thrill, she found that which was not deadly was very dull. Jacob's sibling was able to cast a fully-fledged Shield Charm in time, deflecting the curse. Congratulating them on their success, Rakepick noted that their professors were right to commend their talents, and ended the lesson by saying they were likely to meet again soon, before leaving the training grounds.
Madam Rakepick and Professor Snape with the sleepwalking student
Afterwards, Rakepick was interrogating the school's house-elves when Severus Snape, the Potions Master at Hogwarts, came to her, saying he had found another sleepwalking student. He took her to see a Gryffindor boy who was found in the Forbidden Forest; the boy was standing upright, yet trapped in slumber. The examination of the pupil devolved into a petty spat rooted in lingering resentment from their own student years, with the Head of Slytherin House accusing Rakepick of tampering with the Cursed Vaults, while she in turn mocked Snape's inability to let go of grudges. In the end, they agreed to put aside their personal animosity and work together to bring the student to the Hospital Wing.
As the 1987–1988 school year went on, the faculty continued to watch the perimeter of the Forbidden Forest in an effort to protect the students. Every so often, members of the staff such as Filius Flitwick and Rubeus Hagrid would find pupils wandering off to what would could very well have been their own death at the teeth and claws of the dangerous magical creatures lurking therein, had it not been for their timely intervention. As per Dumbledore's instruction, Madam Rakepick was kept well informed of these incidents and began to visit the Hospital Wing on a regular basis to see if there was anything more to be learned from sleepwalking victims who woke up. Rakepick also set up her own network of informants, including Merula Snyde, to keep her au courant about almost everything going on at Hogwarts. Around this time, she also looked into the possibility of a Cursed Vault in Hogsmeade, which led her to make inquiries at Three Broomsticks Inn.
At some point, Rakepick was informed that Jacob's sibling had been asking the teachers about her, as well as researching the creatures of the Forbidden Forest. In return, Rakepick made inquiries into Jacob's sibling as well, questioning their classmates such as Penny Haywood. Finally, Rakepick sent Jacob's sibling a letter arranging a meeting in the Artefact Room for a private discussion. While not angry with them for snooping, she said that if they had questions about her, they could ask them to her face, as no one in the castle actually knew her as well as they thought they did. She also admitted that she considered them a standout from the student at Hogwarts, by virtue of their considerable talents and their reasons for wanting to find the vaults, and encouraged their pursuit of them. She also suggested they ask Professor Silvanus Kettleburn about how to enter the Dark Forest without being detected, since had spent a considerable amount of time exploring the forest and as such was privy to many of its secrets. Since he had once shared information regarding the forest with Rakepick when she was a student, he might be persuaded to do the same for Jacob's sibling.
Madam Rakepick with her handpicked candidates
With her search for the Vaults hampered by the sleepwalking curse, Rakepick needed an assistant. She contacted all the students who met her criteria: above average in intelligence and ability, some sort of talent or expertise, and experience with the Cursed Vaults. She gathered her candidates at the Training Grounds to put them through a trial that would determine which of them would become her assistant. Six of her seven choices turned up, with only Penny declining Rakepick's offer because she felt more like a potion-maker than a curse-breaker. When questioned by Ismelda Murk as to why anyone would want to be her assistant, Madam Rakepick hinted that, she would be teaching her assistant powerful magic the likes of which they could not learn from any of their professors. She used the Blasting Curse on a Mechanical Death Eaters to illustrate her point.
It did not take long before the chosen six were called to assemble at Training Grounds a second time. Rather than teaching them another curse, Rakepick said they were to duel each other, and encouraged them to bypass the usual restrictions by using Curses, Charms, Transfiguration, Potions and even physical violence if that was what they had to do in order to win, explaining that she expected them to from one another that evening. The last one standing would become her assistant. She let Jacob's sibling pick their opponent first, and after they had triumphed over their chosen adversary, Rakepick ended the session, asking the victor to stay behind to see if they would be interested in a private lesson to teach them a spell she believed to "align with [your] specific interest". Before leaving the ground, she expressed her appreciation for their determination and thirst for knowledge and wished Jacob's sibling luck on their search for the Forbidden Forest.
Professor Kettleburn and Madam Rakepick introducing Sickleworth
Later, Rakepick let Professor Kettleburn use Sickleworth as a teaching aid in his Care of Magical Creatures class on Nifflers. Afterwards, introduced the students to her pet, and said he had been assigned to her by the management of Gringotts Wizarding Bank to burrow underground for treasure hidden at cursed sites. She also told the students how she came up with his name and affectionately described his sweet disposition and destructive capabilities. After class had ended, Rakepick brushed off Kettleburn's expressions of gratitude, simply commenting that everyone should be aware of how inadvisable it was to keep Nifflers as pets. She was taken somewhat by surprise when he replied that he had twelve Nifflers of his own, which had cost him his house, boat and favourite peg-leg, but he was eager to get more.
As part of her search for the Cursed Vaults, Rakepick interrogated the castle's ghosts, though this proved unfruitful. Around the same time, she became aware that an unidentified, possibly Dark wizard had attacked and threatened Jacob's sibling one night in the Courtyard. Rakepick wanted to uncover the Dark wizard's true identity, and started her own investigation parallel to the one being conducted by Penny Haywood. Later, she approached sixth-year Gryffindor Prefect Bill Weasley, and informed him that if he wished to be a Curse-Breaker like herself, becoming Head Boy in his final year would help him reach that goal. Shortly thereafter, having resumed her duties of searching for the Cursed Vaults on her own, Rakepick was content with observing the students in the Great Hall. Upon spotting Jacob's sibling, she inquired about Mr Bilton Bilmes, the proprietor of Zonko's Joke Shop, whom she had encountered on one of her trips to Hogsmeade, as she thought there was something "peculiar" about him.
Madam Rakepick conferring with Jacob's sibling
Jacob's sibling sent Rakepick an owl, requesting another meeting at the Training Grounds; they were searching for a jewelled arrow head that belonged to the centaurs, and wanted Rakepick's advice on the matter. While happy to assist, she nevertheless insisted that she would only do so once they had improved their proficiency in combative magic. When asked why there had to be a prerequisite, Rakepick said that she helping them more than they knew.  After seeing Jacob's sibling work on their offensive and defensive spell-casting to her satisfaction, Madam Rakepick complimented them on their improving skill before returning to the matter at hand. On the subject of the arrowhead, she suggested that it might be buried somewhere inside the castle, reminding them that with magic, one could easily bury something without dirt or shovel. She also promised that if they proved themselves capable of caring for a Niffler, she would lend them her own to help them find the arrowhead.
Patricia Rakepick teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts in Classroom 3C
Rakepick took the job as Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, despite knowing the rumours of the position being cursed. As a Curse-Breaker, she felt she was uniquely suited to the task and considered the previous professors failings to be a sign of the failings. Her lessons for the fifth-year students, including Jacob's sibling, covered topics such as ghouls, pixies, Boggarts, the Impediment Jinx, hex-deflection, the Tongue-Tying Curse, the Trip Jinx, Deprimo, the Smokescreen Spell, Lacarnum Inflamari, the Reductor Curse, the Snake-Vanishing Spell, Everte Statum, Densaugeo and the Human-presence-revealing Spell.
She took William Weasley, Merula Snyde, and Jacob's sibling on as assistant Curse-Breakers, forming a team to find the next Cursed Vault. She immediately taught them the Incarcerous Spell on the Hogwarts Training Grounds at night.
Patricia Rakepick pointing her wand at Verucca Buckthorn-Snyde
During the school year, Rakepick helped Jacob's sibling and a friend of theirs into Knockturn Alley where they could hopefully gain important information from, by faciliating their use of the Floo Network from the fireplace in the Headmaster's office. Once Jacob's sibling and their friends were cornered by a group of aggressive Dark wizards and witches in Knockturn Alley, Rakepick arrived on the scene and saved them, blasting back Verucca Buckthorn-Snyde swiftly with a spell and threatening to kill any of the others if they wanted to challenge her, and even going as far as threatening to turn them inside out and feed their innards to the Gringott's Dragon if they glared at her.
One time after Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Rakepick told Jacob's sibling there had been rumours of a portrait of a Cursed Vault hidden in Hogwarts. Jacob's sibling then went on to search, but instead of a portrait, they brought back a parchment, which Rakepick told them was the Marauder's Map. At night, Rakepick explained to Jacob's sibling all about the map. It was her belief that the Map would show them the location of the man who attacked Mundungus Fletcher who would have the portrait, the key to the next Cursed Vault. They opened the Map and saw a person moving very fast, but before Jacob's sibling could see their name, Rakepick pocketed the Map.
Jacob's sibling did however see the location of that person, and after some investigation, they found one of Jacob's notebooks, which recorded Jacob's collaboration with Rakepick, Rakepick's fear of the Cabal, and that she had saved Jacob's sibling's life years ago. They talked to Rakepick about them, but Rakepick denied everything. Days later, Jacob's sibling asked her again, but she still refused to divulge anything. They then wanted to duel Rakepick to show her their strength, but she made the first move and broke their wand. Rakepick then accompanied them to Ollivanders to purchase a new wand.
Rakepick met Jacob's sibling again when they were looking for people to practise Legilimency. She pretended to welcome them to break into her mind, but then used Occlumency to deny their access.
After Rowan Khanna was mentally possessed to behave like the unidentified cloaked figure and knocked unconsciousness by Ben Copper, Rakepick deliberated with Jacob's sibling and found Percy Weasley to be possibly responsible for Rowan's behaviour. She then spoke to Percy, and though she didn't think Percy had the ability to cast the Imperius Curse, her instincts told her he was somehow intimately involved. Rakepick wanted to teach Jacob's sibling the Cruciatus Curse, but they didn't want to learn an Unforgivable Curse like it. She then demonstrated on a nearby dark wizard, who immediately screamed in pain. Witnessing this didn't change Jacob's sibling's mind, but Rakepick still believed it would be useful under certain circumstances.
When the castle apparently had a rat problem in the upstairs corridors, Rakepick talked to Professor Kettleburn who suggested purchasing some cats. At one point, when Rakepick arrived at the upstairs corridors, she heard Jacob's sibling talking to a man (who was in fact Peter Pettigrew) about the vault portrait and Peeves. Rakepick then gathered Jacob's sibling, Bill and Merula to talk about their plan of retrieving the portrait.
After executing a delicate plan, Jacob's sibling was successfully in possession of the vault portrait. They presented it to Rakepick, who told them they would be facing a dragon in the next Cursed Vault. Due to it being highly efficient in fighting dragons, Rakepick taught Jacob's sibling, Merula and Bill the Conjunctivitis Curse. She also lent Merula the Defence Against the Dark Arts classroom, but when she walked in, Merula had cast a dangerous Fiendfyre which she couldn't control, so Rakepick extinguished it for her. When the time of entering the next Cursed Vault was near, Rakepick arranged a private lecture on Portkeys for Jacob's sibling, Bill, Merula and Ben (who would all be entering the Vault) and explained that the vault portrait should be a Portkey that would travel that night. Later, Rakepick conversed with Jacob's sibling in private and asked them to take the lead should she die.
Rakepick and the students waited for Ben for some while, and when he came, they grasped the vault portrait and travelled to the chamber outside the Buried Vault. After searching, Jacob's sibling wanted to try opening a door on the portrait wall, but Rakepick prevented them. When Ben simply knocked on the door, the Hungarian Horntail appeared and stepped out of the portraits. The Vault started to collapse, and while Rakepick cast the Slowing Charm on the falling rocks, Jacob's sibling used the Conjunctivitis Curse on the Horntail, thwarting several of its attempts to attack and leading to their victory.
Rakepick turning on the students in the Buried Vault
The door on the portraits still wouldn't open, but Jacob's sibling reported that something was in their head, which Rakepick recognised as the door using Legilimency due to being enchanted and suggested they do the same to the door. This successfully unlocked the door, and it was also at this moment did Rakepick knock the students all down and reveal her true nature. She recounted the story of her first visit, and when they tried to stand up to her, she shoved them down with simple wand strikes. She admitted that the students were only used by her as dragon baits, except for Jacob's sibling, whose Legimilency abilities she needed to open the door. When Merula attempted to stop her from killing all of them, Rakepick used the Cruciatus Curse on her. This escalated the conflict, and Jacob's sibling pulled out a bottle of Garrotting Gas and smashed it in front of Rakepick, making her choke and Disapparate out of the room.
When it was revealed that she was a part of 'R', and Jacob was freed, he chased the dark witch and she hid for a long time as she was also sought by Alastor Moody. She got out of her hiding place multiple times, once for taking what she was supposed to take for a long time; a friend's life.
Rakepick killing Rowan in the Forbidden Forest
Sometime during the 1989–1990 school year, Rakepick returned to the Forbidden Forest and ran into Jacob's sibling and their friends. She first conjured her corporeal Patronus in the form of a lioness to banish the Dementors that were present in the forest. She then engaged in a fierce duel with them, eventually casting the Killing Curse with the intention of it hitting Ben Copper, but he was pushed out of the way by Rowan Khanna and the spell killed them instantly. She reiterated R's warning of them "owing a friend's life" and considered the debt collected before Disapparating.
Rakepick striking down Jacob's sibling, who was impersonating her
At one point, when Rakepick arrived at Knockturn Alley to attend a secret meeting of R, she found someone disguised as her talking to Verucca Buckthorn-Snyde and Kazuhiro Shiratori. She immediately struck them down and engaged in a brief fight with Alastor Moody, Jacob and some Hogwarts students. When she found out she was outnumbered, she Disapparated.
Rakepick duelling Jacob's sibling
Through unknown means, Rakepick found out the location of the Sunken Vault, and, bypassing Barnaby Lee's sentry, she caught up with Merula, Ben, Jacob and his sibling down in the Great Lake when they decided to reseal the Vault. After knocking down Ben and Jacob, she interrupted Merula's Killing Curse and Stunned her. She then had an intense duel with Jacob's sibling, but was ultimately defeated by the Disarming Charm. Following this incident, Rakepick was arrested and sent to Azkaban.
Patricia Rakepick imprisoned in Azkaban
During her imprisonment, Rakepick's mental state quickly deteriorated because of the "horrors" she suffered due to the Dementors. After almost a year of torture since her arrest, she attempted to escape Azakaban in 1991. During the prison's lockdown, she hid from the Dementors in an interrogation room and, at her own surprise, she was soon joined by Jacob's sibling. The latter was sent by the Ministry of Magic to interrogate Rakepick, but ended up being trapped in the prison when the lockdown started. During their discussion, Rakepick revealed to her former student how 'R' actually was, not an alternative name of The Cabal like they and their allies had previously thought, but actually the initial of a mysterious individual who was the real mastermind and leader of the group, and to whom Rakepick and even the Director were just a little more than puppets. As Jacob's sibling kept their wand during the lockdown, Rakepick proposed them a bargain. She would tell them everything she knew about the real leader of R, if they help her to escape while keeping at bay the Dementors.
Rakepick using the Patronus to save her and Jacob's sibling's lives from the Dementors
Jacob's sibling agreed and they both ran away to the Supermax part of the prison. There, they were ambushed by a group of Dementors. Rakepick took her former student's wand and saved their lives by casting an incorporeal Patronus. However, as she was desperate to not return in prison, Rakepick hesitated to return the wand, forcing Jacob's sibling to disarm her wandlessly. Realising she would not be able to escape Azkaban after all, Rakepick admitted it was over for her and adviced her former student to keep its qualities against R. After Jacob's sibling left her in supermax, Rakepick was found by the Dementors as the prison's lockdown was soon ended. She was presumably returned back to her cell.
Patricia Rakepick's appearance
Patricia Rakepick was a haughty-looking witch with wavy red hair and blue eyes. She often wore a long-sleeved brown shirt and matching trousers decorated with a dragon scale texture, and a blood red waistcoat that was a shorter at the back than on the front. She wore black robes, on which an ornamental Eye of Horus was pinned, high boots and white gloves, as well as two light brown belts across her waist, one of which held a leather holster for her wand.
However upon being imprisoned in Azkaban, her appearance changed drastically; she was forced to wear the black and grey-striped uniform of Azkaban prisoners, over her black cloak, with her hair mangy and greying, and her demeanour utterly defeated, having suffered in Azkaban for some time.
Rakepick sadistically torturing Merula Snyde with the Cruciatus Curse in the Buried Vault
While a self-declared daredevil with little regard for rules or restrictions and with a strong sense of entitlement, Patricia Rakepick was a highly intelligent and magically gifted witch, as evidenced by both her top performance at Hogwarts as well as her later achievements in life. Very secure in her own judgement and immensely confident in her own abilities, she would often eye those with whom she conversed with a look of gleeful smugness, yet could demonstrate a sudden temper or disdain towards those of whom she did not think very highly, such as Ben Copper, whom she cruelly singled out during her evaluation of a group of students from which she wanted to pick an assistant for her sanctioned search for the Cursed Vaults. While she was sorted into Gryffindor upon arriving at Hogwarts, Severus Snape noted her to be unusually cunning for a member of that house.
According to Silvanus Kettleburn, she was a strict disciplinarian who did not suffer foolishness from anyone, be it from the Curse-Breakers working under her or domesticated magical creatures in her care. Her stringency in this regard was assumed to be the reason why Sickleworth was, according to Professor Kettleburn, the most well-behaved Niffler he had ever seen.
Known to take immense pride in her status as a world-renowned Curse-Breaker, she was not a particularly modest person, as seen by her shameless flaunting of her position of trust and prestige, even to her peers, in order to attempt to place herself above them. Not all talk and no bite, however, she was happy to be in the thick of the action, she was not someone to shy away from a dangerous situation, with even Rubeus Hagrid believing her to be completely fearless. Patricia also had a devious streak, actively encouraging students to be ruthless in the manner they dealt their rivals by telling them to ignore the restrictions that their professors otherwise would have put on duels, and recruiting students to participate in searching for the Cursed Vaults in spite of Headmaster Albus Dumbledore expressively forbidding them in doing so.
She had a reputation for ruthlessness and eliminating those that she believed to be her competition, widely known as someone not to be crossed. But despite these traits, her true dark nature wasn't widely known.
Beneath her veneer of cordiality, lurked a personality that was ambitious, cruel, sadistic and downright evil. Hungry for the power of the Cursed Vaults, Rakepick had no qualms with how she attempted to achieve this goal nor with whom she associated in the process, having joined the mysterious and intensely malevolent "R" and manipulating young and eager wizards and witches in this regard. She did not in fact care for her young charges in any way beyond their immediate or potential usefulness to her and willingly discarded them the moment she deemed them liabilities rather than assets.
An intensely brutal and sadistic witch, Rakepick subjected her most loyal and trusting disciple, Merula Snyde, to repeated and prolonged torture with the Cruciatus Curse, which required a genuine willingness to inflict pain and enjoy doing so, also verbally taunting the poor girl for her misplaced faith. She later also tried to use the Killing Curse, which again requires a genuine willingness to kill and disregard for the life to be extinguished, on Ben Copper when he managed to actually hurt her during a duel. The only reason it didn't kill Ben was because of Rowan Khanna jumping in and pushing him away, taking the curse themselves and dying as a result, but Rakepick still showed herself as an intensely malevolent witch by not only being willing to murder young teenagers, but also to taunt Rowan's best friend with the reminder that "R" had intended to kill one of their friends.
A highly accomplished witch, Patricia Rakepick was extremely talented, highly intelligent and rather powerful. Indeed, many held her abilities in such a high regard that many considered her to be the best Curse-Breaker in the world.
Rakepick's corporeal Patronus, in the shape of a lioness
Rakepick's wand
Albus Dumbledore, her former teacher and employer
Albus Dumbledore was, at the time of Patricia's arrival at Hogwarts, the school's Head of Transfiguration under then Headmaster Armando Dippet, until he eventually succeeded the latter in said post at some point during her magical education. While it is unknown how he felt about her rebellious streak, a trait for which, seen as it went beyond mere mischief-making, many of his colleagues came to distrust and dislike her for, she was nevertheless a talented student. Impressed with her prodigious gifts, even Professor Dumbledore regarded her an exceptional pupil, speaking highly of her abilities even after her graduation. He welcomed her warmly back to Hogwarts upon inviting her back to the castle to help the staff in their efforts to put a stop to the threat posed to the security of the school and those who dwelled therein by the fabled Cursed Vaults, though it is unknown if he shared Severus Snape's suspicions about her ulterior motives, the latter of whom believed, quite correctly, that Dumbledore trusted her.
Severus Snape, her former schoolmate and enemy
Five years his senior at Hogwarts, Severus Snape met Patricia Rakepick for the first time while they were both still students, and took an immediate dislike to her: Bold as brass and with little regards for school rules, and a member of Gryffindor House to boot, Patricia Rakepick was someone whom Severus would one day compare to his arch-rival during his schooldays, James Potter, another trouble-making Gryffindor. Whilst it is uncertain what he thought of Rakepick's initial claims about the existence of the fabled Cursed Vaults as a student, he did acknowledge that she was remarkably ambitious for a Gryffindor, and by no means stupid. By the time he had replaced Horace Slughorn as the school's Potions Master, Rakepick was already a notable curse-breaker and building her career on eliminating her competition. Wary of her true intentions, when Albus Dumbledore invited her back to help break the curses plaging the school and its denizens, their old rivalry immediately reignited, and Snape immediately went about trying to uncover whatever ulterior motives she might have, suspecting that she wanted to use the Vaults to take control of Hogwarts.
From that moment on, it is known that Snape and Rakepick were engaging in a subtle battle of wits, and even used students to spy on one another. Recognising that Rakepick regarded one of the pupils as a potential rival in her quest to find the Vaults, and aware how Rakepick dealt with rivals, Snape cleverly had said student serving as his spy to shift her attention over on him to protect the student as a supposed mastermind of the youngster's actions, while also using the ploy as a tool to try and learn what Rakepick was up to and expose her to Dumbledore, the one person who they knew for a certainty would be able to put a stop to her plot, whatever it might be.
Hogwarts staff members, who generally disliked and distrusted her
Patricia Rakepick had mixed relationships with the faculty at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. While academically gifted, most of the professors, including both those who taught her in the past and old schoolmates who had joined the staff since she graduated, disliked and distrusted her ever since her formative years as a student for her rebellious nature and frequent rule-breaking.
While there were some exceptions, such as Albus Dumbledore, who was her Transfiguration teacher prior to his appointment as Headmaster of Hogwarts sometime before her fifth year, who never said an ill word about her and merely stated his belief that she was an excellent student, and Silvanus Kettleburn, who remembered her as his best student and even confided in her secrets about the Forbidden Forest and the best way in which to enter in undiscovered, (though he came to suspect she had ulterior motives eventually), most teachers did not think very highly of her. Among these teachers were Rolanda Hooch, whose contempt of Rakepick was such that she outright refused to voice her honest opinion on her in front of her pupils, and Pomona Sprout warned one of her students that Rakepick might be more even dangerous than she appeared at first glance. Filius Flitwick, the Charms Master, preferred for people to make up their own minds about Rakepick, rather than base their own opinion upon his own, and did not comment on it to students. The Keeper of Keys and Grounds at the time, Rubeus Hagrid, also distrusted her, warning Jacob's sibling about the fact that she could be dangerous if crossed. At some point during the 1987-1988 school year, Minerva McGonagall had a very heated argument with Rakepick about "something important", suggesting that the Transfiguration teacher, who presumably began to teach her when Dumbledore rose to the post of Headmaster, also did not think very highly of the younger witch or her methods.
Jacob's sibling, her former student and enemy
Presumably well aware of the events that lead to the expulsion of former Hogwarts student Jacob long before she ever met his younger sibling, given her own interest in the Vaults, Rakepick took interest in the latter individual for their first-hand experience with the Cursed Vaults, and is known to have kept an eye on them, possibly even before she was invited back to Hogwarts by the Headmaster of the day, Albus Dumbledore, to help put the threat of the Cursed Vaults to rest. Though she did not waste any time soliciting the help of said student and their group of friends to make her own, sanctioned search for the Vaults easier, and even assured Jacob's sibling she meant them no harm and even were investigating the identity of the mysterious wizard that had attacked them in the Clock Tower Courtyard after curfew by forging a letter with the handwriting of Silvanus Kettleburn. Severus Snape, however, the Potions Master and former schoolmate of Rakepick's, did not trust her at all, going so far as to saying she had ulterior motives for being at Hogwarts and that she was after the Cursed Vaults for her own gain, and quite possibly meant to kill both them and anyone else who stood in her way. Rakepick continued, however, to request the assistance of Jacob's sibling, teaching them the Shield Charm to test their abilities and, getting impressive results, continued to offer guidance, such as lending them her own Niffler to help in the search for clues and eventually teaching them Arania Exumai in order to prepare them for a potential fight with Acromantulas.
In the end, however, Snape's suspicions were proven partially correct when she fooled Jacob's sibling into breaking into the office of Argus Filch for a wild goose chase, only to swoop in and retrieve something she herself had been looking for. This eventually left Jacob's sibling uncertain if Rakepick can be trusted or if they are playing right into the hand of their potential enemy. Rakepick did redeem herself for her indiscretions, however, when she saved the life of Jacob's sibling by coming to their rescue just as their attacker was about to deliver the coup de grace, casting a Blasting Curse so powerful that the attacker was blasted backwards, across almost the whole length of the Clocktower Courtyard and into a wall, knocking them out cold. Upon undoing the Disillusionment Charm the attacker was under, they discovered that the person in question was Ben Copper, whom Rakepick transported back into the castle to prevent him from hurting himself or others while Jacob's sibling went after the Forest Vault.
The name "Patricia" is a common female given name of Latin origin, and is derived from the Latin word "patrician", meaning "noble", and is the feminine form of the masculine given name Patrick.
The name "Rakepick" is apparently derived from a type of lock-pick, maybe to highlight her being someone who goes to one place to obtain gold to bring back to her employers.
The original character model sheet for Patricia Rakepick
The Cursed Vaults were five legendary hidden rooms at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, each vault shielded by a different curse placed on it.
Some alleged that the vaults housed priceless treasures such as gold, prophecies, and other powerful magical artefacts dating back to before the school was founded, while others believed they contained Dark Magic.
Their origin is uncertain, and it is possible that they dated back to before the founding of the school. Before Jacob proved they existed, most believed the Cursed Vaults to be nothing more than a legend.
Albus Dumbledore's research into the vaults revealed that a terrible amount of work had gone into their construction and that one could only guess that whatever they were built to hold, it followed that it was even more incredibly dangerous and complex than the magic used to make the vaults themselves, not to mention that whatever they contained would be likely to be far more terrible.
The origin of the vaults has been forgotten. Among the many theories circulating, Albus Dumbledore mentions two, that they were created by the Hogwarts founders themselves or that they were created by a Headmaster who suffered from paranoia, but he might have been trying to discourage Jacob's sibling from continuing their research into the vaults.
The Gryffindor House ghost, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, later explained to the same student that because Hogwarts Castle was always intended as a safe place, the school shouldered the responsibility of safeguarding and protecting that which was dangerous from falling into the wrong hands, and carrying the burden of the job remarkably well despite the fact that subsequent heads of the school and members of the faculty came to recognise how it, to some extent, compromised the security of the castle.
Sir Nicholas believed that while there was a general consensus among those who believed that the Cursed Vaults were real that they were most likely originally made to protect something dangerous by people wanting to take advantage of the school's ever-changing floorplan to make their locations more difficult to find, it was also possible that the vaults were created around something dangerous that could not be moved.
Over the centuries, numerous individuals had been overheard discussing the Vaults by Sir Nicholas throughout his time as a spectral resident at the castle. Among them were the Professors Fortinbras and Bartholomew, who were involved in the creation of a 'circle of trust' consisting of a group of teachers and students who all worked together researching the vaults with the intent of putting an end to the threat they posed to the school. Ultimately unsuccessful, both of the aforementioned teachers left behind the fruits of their work for those who came after, hoping that they might succeed where they failed and solve the mystery.
During her school career, Patricia Rakepick did research into the existence and reportedly tried to warn her teachers of the existence of the Cursed Vaults, to no avail.
At some point during his magical education, a student named Jacob went looking for those vaults, endangering the whole school in the process, for which he was expelled.
The vaults was connected to the cursed ice found in the school. During the 1984–1985 school year, the ice that had been securely contained within a locked room in the fifth floor of the castle, which once nearly spread throughout the school, broke free from the room and began to not only spread once more but also turned out to have become impervious to the Knockback Jinx, which previously had been sufficient to shatter it. Minerva McGonagall believed that this was because someone tampered with the vaults.
Opened centre column of the Vault of Ice
One of the vaults was located at the end of the Vanished Stairs hidden by a wall on the fifth floor. The magical door was covered in ice, and attacked those who touched it or tried to use the Fire-Making Spell on it. After Jacob's sibling, Bill Weasley, and an unknown friend made their way into the vault using the Fire-Making Spell and defeated the Ice Knight, they found a broken wand and a book inside.
Jacob's sibling heard a warning from their brother which was spoken through the vaults, which the other two could not hear, telling them not to let "her" find the other four vaults. The book only contained drawings and scribblings.
The Vault of Fear
Another one of the vaults, the Vault of Fear, was found by Jacob's Sibling and their friends in the 1986–1987 school year. It was hidden behind a bookcase in the Restricted Section in the library. There were three boggarts inside that defended the Vault of Fear that looked the same as the Vault of Ice but as described by Jacob's sibling "way more scarier." To open the vault you had to touch a broken wand. Inside it was a map of the Forbidden Forest and a broken arrow.
The Forest Vault
Another one of the vaults, the Forest Vault, was found by Jacob's Sibling and their friends in the 1987–1988 school year. It was hidden in a grove of the Forbidden Forest. Its entrance was defended by an Acromantula, which placed its lair there to feed on sleepwalking students. Torvus the Centaur described the inside of it as "incredible". To open the vault you had to touch the Centaur colony's arrow. Inside it was the portrait of a dragon and a small sweater.
Inside the vault, Jacob's sibling received a warning from their brother which was spoken through the vaults, which the other could not hear, telling them that only the final vault was real, that the others were traps and decoys but also that he was trapped in the next one.
The Buried Vault
The Buried Vault was explored sometime prior to 31 October, 1981 by Jacob, Patricia Rakepick and Peter Pettigrew. During this journey, they encountered the dragon guarding the inner chamber Pettigrew escaped, leaving Rakepick and Jacob behind. The two managed to distract the beast long enough to enter the vault, thanks to Jacob's Legilimency but did not defeat the dragon. When entering, Jacob was trapped inside a portrait while Rakepick was sent to the Forbidden Forest.
Years later, in the 1988–1989 school year, Rakepick entered the vault along with Jacob's sibling and their friends. This time, they managed to defeat the dragon, and Jacob's sibling used Legilimency to open the door to the vault. Rakepick then revealed her true plan and attempted to kill the students. They managed to stop her, and after the encounter, Rakepick escaped. Jacob's sibling entered the vault and found their brother. They managed to free him, but their reunion was brief as Jacob went after Rakepick. The students returned to Hogwarts using a portrait of the place.
The Sunken Vault
The Sunken Vault was located inside the mouth of a statue of a Giant Squid, the entrance of which needed to be cleared due to fallen debris. The vault made everyone in the room relive their worst memories in a loop if touched. It is unknown what, if anything, is inside, as it didn't open even after Jacob, Ben Copper, Merula Snyde and Jacob's sibling managed to shake off the curse during their break-in in the 1990–1991 school year. The vault was sealed again by Jacob's sibling after a duel with Patricia Rakepick.
R, also known as The Cabal, was an enigmatic and powerful secret society that was active during the 20th century and behind a number of clandestine operations around the world.
Shrouded in mystery and operating largely in complete secrecy, while little was known about its origins and motives, and even though the identities of its members was largely unknown, it was eventually discovered by Alastor Moody that it consisted of a group of Dark wizards that dealt in the illicit acquisition of arcane knowledge, magical artefacts and unlocking the path to immortality, and whose ruthless pursuit for power had given rise to various clandestine operations around the world.
They were also known to have had sufficient political influence to facilitate the continued concealment of their unlawful activities; having at some point successfully infiltrated the Ministry of Magic in London and been able to search for the fabled Cursed Vaults for more than half a decade before the Ministry even received their first reports that their cabal existed; at which point its members had already acquired enough sway to issue commands to the guards at the fortress of Azkaban; having at one point ordered a Dementor to leave its post in Azkaban and attack Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry without being discovered. Following the fall of the Dark Lord, they permitted former Death Eaters to join their ranks.
They were opposed to the British Ministry of Magic, as they viewed it as corrupt. Its leader Peregrine claimed they were not evil, but they were the "good guys", and that they sought knowledge, truth and justice. The ultimate goal of R, it appears, was to de-corrupt the Ministry using mind control to force officials they perceived as corrupt into retirement.
This group began writing suspicious letters signed as "R" to denizens of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the mid-1980s. Those letters were very commanding, with imposed instructions and threats of punishment in case the recipients did not follow the instructions. They first wrote to Jacob's sibling in the 1985–1986 school year. Two school years later, they wrote to both Jacob's sibling and Patricia Rakepick, telling Rakepick to step aside from Hogwarts. That same year, a mysterious cloaked figure told Jacob's sibling to avoid the Cursed Vaults, Patricia Rakepick and the Forbidden Forest. It is possible that the messenger was a member of, or sent by, R. R later sent a Dementor to Hogwarts to test Jacob's sibling.
Patricia Rakepick was a member of R, but only had a minor role.
Alastor Moody knew about the group. In 1989, he told Jacob's sibling about it and made them swear not to tell anyone else. Moody's investigation into the group showed that the group had former Death Eaters in its ranks.
Even after the final Cursed Vault was sealed and Rakepick was defeated, R was still not finished in their crusade of seeking power and immortality. With the help of Mundungus Fletcher, Jacob's sibling found out in Knockturn Alley (while wearing an Invisibility Cloak) that the Hogwarts mole was really their long thought-to-be friend Merula Snyde. In a meeting with her aunt Verucca Buckthorn-Snyde, it was revealed that Merula had been working for R and her mission was to bring Jacob's sibling into R, in return that she would become more powerful. She was willing to accept R as her new family and leave Hogwarts behind. The witch promised that Merula's wish would be fulfilled and her journey was only the beginning. They then Apparated away, leaving Jacob's sibling shocked.
During the 1990–1991 school year, Jacob suspected that R had taken the other half of the Dark Scroll from a cave in Japan, in order to brew Dai Ryusaki's mind-enhancing potion for nefarious purposes. Verucca brewed the potion by forcing Merula to tell her the ingredients. This potion was tested in the Shrieking Shack when Peregrine had Jacob drink it along with wearing the Crown of Mneme, so he could develop mind control powers. However, the demonstration went wrong when Jacob began to pain from the Crown's curse, causing a power surge from their head to blast the test subject. Jacob's sibling knocked the Crown under a piano after Jacob removed it, allowing them, Jacob and their friend to escape via Apparition.
On 11 March 2019, it was made available for users to pre-register but was taken down. On 16 April 2019, a beta version was released in New Zealand for Android and iOS devices. Originally due to release on 21 June 2019, the game was released a day early on 20 June 2019.
On 2 November 2021, Niantic announced that the game would be shut down on 31 January 2022, and that the game would be removed from all app stores on 6 December 2021, and in-game purchases would not be able to be made after 6 December.
When unpredictable traces of magic appeared all over the Muggle world, the wizarding world faced potential exposure. To avert this calamity, the Ministry of Magic began recruiting witches and wizards to join the Statute of Secrecy Task Force.
The gameplay was similar to other Niantic games such as Pokémon GO and Ingress. As an AR game, the main aspect of the game was to interact with the real world, which is provided by a map of the player's location.
Niantic released the first beta testing version of the game in New Zealand. In this version, all features presented in the game were playable, although some content was not then available. The following appeared in the beta version.
The other objects the player could encounter were Foundables, which could be a variety of things: wizards, creatures, items, memories and so on. The player had to accurately trace the required spell to 'return' the Foundable to the Ministry and add it to the player's Registry.
The Registry was divided into four categories and displayed the captured Foundables:
On the map, the player could see their own character, various locations, Foundables and random potion ingredients. Owls and letters could be seen flying in the background, and if the player moved too fast, they will ride a broomstick.
Locations were static, real-life locations present on the map and taken from Niantic's database (based on Portals in Ingress and PokéStops and Gyms in Pokémon GO). There were three types of buildings:
The Ministry ID displayed information about the player's character. The player could customise their name and surname, title, Hogwarts House, profession, wand and wizarding achievements. Hogwarts Houses did not have an impact of the gameplay, other that changing the colour of the character on the game map.
The suitcase was used to access the player's information. It contained the following:
The game featured two types of daily rewards. Daily tasks included returning Foundables, collecting potion ingredients, visiting Inns and such. Daily treasure took into account daily log-ins.
Special tasks were in-game events such as the monthly Brilliant Events, Wizarding Weekends, and Community Days.
The game featured different weather conditions and moon phases, which mirrored real-time weather conditions and moon phases based on the player's location.
The following weathers were in the game: Clear, Fog, Overcast, Partly Cloudy, Rainy
Snow and Windy. The follow moon phases appeared: First Quarter, Full, New Moon, Third Quarter, Waning Crescent, Waning Gibbous, Waxing Crescent and Waxing Gibbous.
Both features influenced Confoundable appearances, in particular Oddities.
Several characters appeared in Wizards Unite through dialogues, usually to give advice and explanations to the player. They did not appear on the map.
Most spells were used against Confoundables to free them. The spell required in each different situation was automatically provided by the game. Another spell, Combat Bolt, was used as generic combative spell in Fortresses. The Summoning Charm (Accio) could be used to summon plates of food and drink whilst visiting Inns, and the Herbivicus Charm (Herbivicus) could also be used to accelerate the growth of growing plants and fungi in Greenhouses. The Shield Charm (Protego) was used to protect the player against damage, when battling Oddities and foes in Fortresses.
The following spells appeared in the game to free Confoundables:
The following spells were "strategic spells" that could be used in Wizarding Challenges:
The following spells were considered "Field Charms":
Each potion required the right ingredient to brew, and the brewing time differed from potion to potion. Performing the right Master Notes (wand movements on the brewing potion) would decrease the brewing time by 15% (with the exception of Tonic for Trace Detection, which was reduced by 50%).
The following potions which existed in the game were:
Various potion ingredients could be collected from the map and from Greenhouses (plant-based ingredients only), which were required to brew various potions. Plant and fungi ingredients could also be grown in Greenhouses by the player, all of which which required different periods of time to grow. The yield of these growths could be rapidly increased with the Herbivicus Charm. Almost all of the ingredients could be collected from the map or from Greenhouses, with the exception of Hermit crab shell and Unicorn hair, which could only obtained from Portkeys, gifts or from completing certain assignments and achievements.
The following ingredients needed to brew potions were:
A number of magical objects and artefacts could be collected during the game, which could be used for a variety of different purposes.
Constance Pickering was a half-blood witch who worked for the British Ministry of Magic, and was the leader of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force.
Constance was born somewhere in the British Isles to parents (one of whom was at least magical) around the dawn of the 21st century.
Her grandfather, Matthias Pickering, was a cruel and greedy wizard who would turn violent whenever Constance angered him, which was often. Despite that, Constance's parents always sided with him. He was wealthy and knew a lot of powerful witches and wizards, so Pickering family always did whatever they could to keep him happy. He opened Constance's eyes to all the injustice in the wizarding world.
As a child, she lived next door to a Muggle girl, Silvia. Constance convinced her that "hedgehogs" loved it when you left them snacks overnight. Silvia left out a plate and and the next day her garden was destroyed, leaving Constance feeling guilty.
She once had a Crup named Ross, but her family had to give him away when Constance's brother turned out to be a squib, and Ross just wouldn't stop nipping his bum, which scarred him for life.
When Constance was a girl, her family took her to a dragon sanctuary in Norway. They got to see the baby dragons up close and one of them bit Constance's finger, which hurt for a month.
Constance always thought Christmas crackers looked like loads of fun when her mother and sister pulled them together. The pop always made her squeal with delight. But they were never able to have a tree at they house. Constance's mum said she was “allergic” to decorating. Therefore Constance loved looking in their neighbours' windows and seeing their trees, all bright and shiny.
When Constance was ten years old, her grandmother came over for Christmas. She wore a badger brooch that Constance pilfered to play with. As punishment, Constance spent the rest of Christmas locked in the attic.
As a little girl, Constance used to adore vintage circus posters. However, during a wave of the Calamity focusing on the Circus Arcanus, she finally saw the old-time circus up close and lost the desire to go to one. She also hated clowns.
Constance displayed signs of magical ability at some point in her early childhood and was subsequently admitted to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, which issued her a letter of acceptance on her eleventh birthday. Her mother wouldn't buy her a new cauldron. She gave Constance her brother's old, used one and bought him a new one. She later boarded the Hogwarts Express from Platform 9¾ at King's Cross Station in order to embark on her first year of magical education.
At the time of her attendance, which began no earlier than September 1998, the school was under the firm stewardship of Professor Minerva McGonagall. Also she never met Professor Slughorn, but always thought she would have been a perfect candidate for the "Slug Club". She was Sorted into Hufflepuff. Throughout her childhood, she heard stories about the Death Eaters that the school's inspirational Headmistress and her allies had fought against at the legendary Battle of Hogwarts, and found the group to be terrifying.
As a student, one of her favourite things about school life was the Christmas celebration at the Hogwarts Castle, and would later go on to leave the school with many fond memories about spending the holidays at the school; marvelling at the pudding, the baubles, the trees and the fairy lights. At some point, she also learned that there had been a Yule Ball that took place during the Triwizard Tournament in 1994 and later admitted to having harboured high hopes that the competition would be held once more just so her generation got one of their own.
Constance loathed The Monster Book of Monsters, because her copy bit her once.
She was never quite as adept at Charms as she would have liked. She failed in Charms, and never really got over it. They had a parent's meeting which included Headmistress McGonagall. It was awful, and Constance spent the time between classes practising various charms on her pet newt, Nevin.
In her fifth year, Constance became the Hufflepuff female Prefect. She was thrilled that she be able to use the Prefects' Bathroom. Constance spent the whole summer leading up to her fifth year dreaming of the long, luxurious soaks she would take come September. Unfortunately, she found it impossible to relax with a portrait of a mermaid staring at her the whole time. After that day, she made sure to only bathe while the mermaid was asleep.
Constance's grandfather, was a selfish wizard who founded The Unforgivable to make himself rich and powerful. He recruited only wealthy and influential wizards with the promise of more money and power. They did terrible things to get ahead with no concern for anyone but themselves. The moment Constance discovered The Unforgivable existed, she decided she could put the organisation and their resources to better use. She decided that she could make a difference and help those truly in need. She made Matthias disappear by hiding him, alive and mostly unharmed, inside the big trunk in her room and with the help of a Polyjuice Potion, took the place of the leader of the organisation.
Constance almost became a Magizoologist when she graduated Hogwarts. But she didn't have the stomach for it. One cold night hiding in a bramble bush by a Muggle field, waiting for a Mooncalf to do its dance was all it took. Constance was out looking for a new post by morning.
Seeing her as an icon, there was nothing Constance wanted more upon graduating from Hogwarts than the chance to work with Hermione Granger, a high-ranking official in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and famously progressive voice that had played no small part in the eradication of oppressive, pro-pureblood laws following her death-defying participation in the legendary Battle of Hogwarts. As such, when she applied for the position as a Junior Undersecretary in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, where her hero worked, Constance discreetly slipped her application into the pile that she knew Mrs Granger would draw her future assistant from, and to her delight found herself picked for the job.
In the 2010s, during the series of large-scale breaches of the Statute of Wizarding Secrecy that became known as The Calamity, the British Ministry of Magic and the International Confederation of Wizards worked together to set up an International Task Force whose job it would be to track down and contain the chaotic outbreaks of magic from being noticed by Muggles. To this end, Ms Pickering was asked by Hermione Granger upon its sanction to set up what would become known as the Statute of Secrecy Task Force. At some point, presumably in her capacity as the leader of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force, she verified the casting of a Muggle-Repelling Charm over an undisclosed object or location. She was also the one who suggested using banners to identify areas of high concentration of Foundables that seemed to be somehow related to one another, at which point her boyfriend, Lucas Sparrowvale, proceeded to spend no less than six months travelling the world and placing them.
In 2019, the Pickering family had Christmas at the new house of Constance's sister, but for some reason, they did not send Constance any details or address. As a result, Constance was invited to have Christmas dinner with the Potter family.
One day, Constance was set on becoming an Animagus. She kept a mandrake leaf in her mouth for a month, brewed the potion, and was just waiting for a lightning storm when Sloan Travers told her about a friend of a friend who botched the spell and became half wizard, half naked mole-rat. Unsure that her silver teaspoon of dew hadn't seen sunlight or been touched by human feet for seven or six days and terrified of becoming a half-human half-animal abomination, Constance never drank the potion.
Although she initially claimed to be a diligent and honest supporter of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy, she in fact was deluded with the misguided belief that the wizarding world should have been exposed to Muggles, as she believed that the law was outdated, oppressive and that Muggles could benefit greatly from magic. She was willing to go to extreme lengths to further her cause, by manipulating the Calamity whilst controlling The Unforgivable, although Hermione Granger and Harry Potter managed to convince her of her the chaos that would be inflicted with her beliefs.
Constance hated witnessing the suffering of others, and believed that magic would help Muggles with their lives. She was also very cunning and a skilled liar, as she convinced Harry and Hermione that was committed to upholding wizarding law with her job, but in reality, she was fundamentally violating the International Statute of Secrecy for her own gain and beliefs. She believed her unlawful actions with manipulating the Calamity were morally justifiable, as she believed good things would come out of wizarding secrecy ending. In the end, however, Constance was not truly an evil woman, as all of her actions and crimes were in the name of creating a world where she hoped to end suffering.
An accomplished witch, Constance Pickering became an important member of the Calamity Management Team and was eventually tasked with heading up the Statute of Secrecy Task Force, whose job it was to investigate and contain the outbreaks of chaotic magic unleashed by the Calamity, showing the trust that the Ministry had in her abilities, both as a leader and where her magical prowess was concerned.
Grim Fawley was born somewhere in the British Isles during the mid-1980s into the wizarding Fawley family. The Fawleys were one of the "Sacred Twenty-Eight", a number of families that were judged to be still "truly pure-blood" by the anonymous author of the Pure-Blood Directory in the 1930s. His parents, Marshall and Lucretia Fawley, were loving and took good care of him.
At the age of eleven, Grim received an acceptance letter from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. At some point before he boarded the Hogwarts Express, he travelled to Diagon Alley to buy school supplies: he was able to recall this in vivid detail even as an adult, suggesting he thought it a very good day.
Grim Fawley started at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on 1 September 1996, and was Sorted into Hufflepuff House. His early years at Hogwarts coincided with the height of the Second Wizarding War: the end of his first year was marked by the infiltration of the school by a group of Death Eaters and the killing of the Headmaster, Albus Dumbledore; during his his second year, following the fall of the Ministry of Magic, the school headed by Severus Snape, and the students were left largely at the mercy of his sadistic deputies, Death Eaters Amycus and Alecto Carrow. The Battle of Hogwarts, which put an end to the war, broke out at the end of that school year: Grim was evacuated with the rest of the students who were not of age through a secret passage to Hogsmeade.
Grim lost both of his parents to Death Eaters at some point during his first or second year at Hogwarts; their remains were cremated and their ashes kept in a porcelain urn that he held onto until adulthood. From that point on, Grim spent the rest of his childhood in the care of orphanages, and rarely spoke about it in later years.
Grim returned to Hogwarts to complete his education; in spite of the great personal tragedy, Grim remained an outstanding student and Headmistress Minerva McGonagall would later go on to describe him as "A Hufflepuff through and through", meaning he embodied all of the qualities that marked his House, such as hard work, dedication and loyalty. With no family to go home to, however, would often stay at the school over the Christmas holidays, and spent many a bittersweet yule-day in Hogwarts Castle with just the portraits and ghosts for company. Even so, he still visibly retained some of the Christmas spirit, and always made sure a present was waiting under the tree for the often neglected caretaker, Argus Filch, and his cat Mrs Norris.
Grim finished his education in 2003 with an impressive academic record, having earned five Outstandings and one Exceeds Expectations on his six N.E.W.T.s, and a "glowing recommendation" from Minerva McGonagall herself.
An accomplished wizard, Grim Fawley joined the Ministry of Magic following his graduation from Hogwarts, having been hired by the Ministry's research wing, he was assigned to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. Landing a desk job as a research assistant at the British Auror Office, Grim was tasked with compiling and fact-checking evidence for the Investigation Department; a difficult job, but nevertheless one at which he was rather good.
While generally quiet and shy around many of his new peers to begin with, Grim was soon recognised for having both "a wit about him", as well as for displaying "a wicked sense of humour" around those he was friendly with, A gifted employee, Grim would go on to work alongside many notable Aurors over the course of his career, such as Battle of Hogwarts veteran Ronald Weasley, with whom he was partnered for some time when he first joined the department, and Mordecai Berrycloth. In time, Grim would go on to get along very well with most of his co-workers, earning the respect and gaining the friendship of many of his fellow Ministry officials.
Ultimately recognised for having played an important role in the apprehension and capture of a number of dangerous Dark wizards, he was eventually promoted to Head research assistant. It was in this capacity that Grim found himself in frequent contact with was his future wife, Penelope Padgett. A highly gifted witch and an efficient employee, she had accomplished much in her work at the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, which ultimately led no less a person than Harry Potter himself, the Head of the British Auror Office, to offer her a job in his department, which she accepted. As the daughter of two staunch followers of Lord Voldemort, there were those, such as Gethsemane Prickle, that remained suspicious of her, and thought that she might have had ulterior motives for agreeing to the transfer. Nevertheless judged to be fully qualified for the job, she impressed her new colleagues by qualifying as a fully-fledged Auror a full year earlier than most of her new colleagues had. Subsequently deemed by Harry Potter to be one of the best and brightest Aurors in the Ministry's employ, she was eventually put in charge of one of their ongoing investigations, and it was during this instance that Grim and Penelope first began working together.
More open-minded than many of his associates, however, Grim did not judge Penelope based on the chosen allegiance of her parents; and instead dutifully accepted the task of helping her to work a case she had been put in charge of. Over the course of the investigation, the two of them eventually grew close, with the pair eventually falling in love while solving crimes together. Worried that their superiors would find their newfound infatuation inappropriate and transfer him to another department, however, the couple was very private about their relationship to begin with; until finally Grim admitted the truth during a Christmas party to a friend and co-worker by the name of Constance Pickering. While the revelation of their workplace romance was later described as "a bit scandalous", rather than taking an issue with two colleagues dating, however, the reactions they received from their associates turned out to be one of surprise, as many of them thought the couple to be an odd fit. Now free to continue seeing each other openly, however, Grim and Penelope eventually married one another, their wedding taking place in in West Bromwich in June of 2006. At some point not too long after, the had a pair of fraternal twins, naming them Melody and Addison.
Having long grown weary of always being sidelined and having to look in on the adventures of those around him, not to mention with being stuck with a job that was,   whilst described by among others Harry Potter as being very difficult, still far below his level of ability and thus left him increasingly unsatisfied. And despite his own initial beliefs to the contrary, it did not take long for his wife to finally convince him that he was indeed cut out for bigger things.  Around the same time, Grim  got hold of an ancient tome; the content of which no one thus far had been up to the task of elucidating. Not only did Grim succeeded where others had failed, however, but he even made it seem easy; and left several handwritten notes detailing his process tucked into the book. Upon learning this, Sage Bragnam, the Head Curator of the Department of Magical Artefacts, tried to have him transferred to his department, only to learn that Grim's wife had already successfully persuaded him to try his hand as an Unspeakable in the Department of Mysteries. Although Gareth Greengrass, a high-ranking researcher of said department whom his wife were friendly with, was initially dumbfounded at the prospect of having Grim as a colleague when Penelope first told him that he was considering to apply for a job there, he quickly warmed up to to the idea when it occurred to him that the man was not only fully qualified, but also undeniably a very accomplished wizard, to the point where Greengrass himself would later remark that Grim had "more magical talent in his little finger than most of us do in our whole bodies."
And so, when Grim finally applied for the job, Mr Greengrass was completely on board with it. His colleague, on the other hand, Albert Sallow, was against the appointment; judging him to be too young, too inexperienced, and that he lacked the passion necessary to be an asset to the team. In the end, it took a letter of recommendation from Greengrass himself, co-signed by the well-respected Auror Mordecai Berrycloth, to get Grim approved accepted for a trial period within the department. While there were some rumours going around that Gareth Greengrass were showing favouritism to Grim because of his friendship with Grim's wife, the effort it took to prove his salt, which included an excellent aptitude for secrecy and considerable amount of magical acumen, Grim's achievement alone. and within a year, even Mr Sallow had to admit, despite of his previous doubts about his commitment to the role, that Grim has surpassed all expectations during his trial period; which ultimately lead Greengrass to dispatch a interdepartmental memo announcing Grim's promotion. Following this, Grim Fawley received a new Ministry Identification Card, featuring a photograph and credentials listing as an Unspeakable, with clearance for the Department of Mysteries, and a key to access it.
Around the same time, the department would have a "breakthrough", though whether the breakthrough was responsible for his promotion is unknown.
At some point during his tenure, Grim rescued Eric Munch in the Brain Room of the Department of Mysteries.
Some time later, Grim was horrified to learn that his wife was counted among a group of five people who gone mysteriously missing in London, along with Riya Patel, Timothy Hale, Kit Gerrard, and Genevieve Bladt - a case that would be referred to as "The London Five". Soon after, Gareth Greengrass, a high-ranking official in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, assured Grim that he would “do everything in [his] power" and "save no expense" to find his wife. Considering one of the missing individuals were one of his own subordinates, Harry Potter became in charge of the investigation. Despite their best efforts, however, the Aurors met a dead end in the London Five investigation, and thus, the council on which Gareth Greengrass and his colleagues presided over the investigation decided to close the case, leaving the families of the missing distraught. Worse still, part of the reason given for the decision was that the costs of the investigation exceeded the amount that the Aurors could afford to spend.
Soon thereafter, Grim sent a memo to Greengrass, pleading with him to convince the council to re-open the investigation. To make matters worse, not only had Greengrass dismissed it as a bad job, he also implied that he was convinced that Penelope was most likely dead, throwing Grim further into a state of despair. Although Greengrass advised him to take time off work "to grieve and look after his children", having gone so far as to even admit that he had already gone over Grim's head and proposed it to Grim's superiors behind his back, Grim refused to take the alleged demise of his beloved Nel on face value and resolved to take matters into his own hands. Not long afterwards, he turned to Harry Potter instead, imploring him to "bend the rules", and continue the search off the records, for Penelope's sake. Soon thereafter, he tried to retrieve his wife's file in order to learn exactly what she had been doing at the time of her disappearance, only to be denied access to it due to the confidentiality of much of its information. This lead him to write an angry message to Mr Potter, insisting that he had a right to access to it, accusing him of showing blatant disregard for his own subordinates and tried to make him change his mind by claiming that he was actively "barring a grieving husband from the closure he deserves", implying he was pretending to have accepted Greengrass's conclusion as a way of appealing to Harry's emotion to try and convince him, once more, to bend the rules.
At some point later, he stole investigation files regarding the investigation into the disappearance of the London Five, where he discovered that the cited reason given for closing the case, namely the strain of the budget, did not correlate with the actual costs of the investigation, prompting him to issue a complaint to the Ministry's Accounting Department and demand an explanation for the inaccuracy in their financial records. Around the same time, Grim received a letter from a witch by the name of Amorette Deneuve, in which she expressed the belief that love was "the greatest and most dangerous magic in the world", describing it something that "imbues itself into our very bones, our very souls". This lead Grim Fawely to believe that the power of love might just be the key to find his wife. At a later date, during the investigation into the Calamity, of which Grim was eventually strongly suspected of having caused and whose whereabouts became unknown to the Ministry around the same time, it was revealed by the log documenting the time of her entry and exit of the Love Chamber that Grim had been coming and going at odd times.
Around the time shortly prior to outbreak of the aforementioned threat to the International Confederation of Wizards' Statute of Secrecy, Grim was known have begun acting rather suspiciously. This was shown when the British Ministry suddenly received an unexpected, written objection complaint from their Japanese counterpart, asking for an explanation as to why one of their employees had written to them and requested classified documents from their archives without going through the proper channels, demanding that they have Grim provide them with a "detailed and polite explanation". At some point later on, a wizarding library in Prague, the capital of the Czech Republic reported that several ancient spell books had gone missing, with its librarian suspecting a recent visitor of being the culprit. This was presumably tied to Fawley's search for his wife.
The Exploding Charm (Bombarda) was a charm that detonated the target in a small explosion. One use for this explosion was to blast open sealed doors or to blow bars off of windows. The incantation Bombarda Maxima was the strongest variation of this spell.
During the 1987–1988 school year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, this spell was taught to fourth-years in Charms class by Professor Flitwick.
During the Calamity in the 2010s, volunteer wizards and witches of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force heavily used the Exploding Charm in their mission to overpower Confoundables, in order to free Foundables. For example, the charm was highly useful at exploding large spheres of water Confoundables which trapped British Ministry of Magic employee Foundables, and for fending off large red serpents Confoundables which were guarding baby unicorn Foundables.
During the 2020–2021 school year, Scorpius Malfoy noted that the explosions produced by this charm were rather noisy, and thus inconvenient for when trying to destroy something stealthily, such as a Time-Turner.
Based off of the English word "bombard", meaning: attack (a place or person) continuously with bombs, shells, or other missiles.
Hermione's non-canonical casting of this spell
The Fire-Making Spell, also known as the Fire-Making Charm (Incendio) was a charm that conjured a jet of flames that could be used to set things alight.
This spell was listed in The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 1 by Miranda Goshawk. This spell was also taught to students during their first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in Charms (and revised during the second year) and Herbology class to deal with the Devil's Snare and other dangerous plants, and was reviewed in the fifth year for students sitting their O.W.L. examinations.
This spell was mentioned in the lyrics of Celestina Warbeck's song "A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love".
The wand movement for the Fire-Making Spell as seen in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite
This spell's icon as seen in Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells
This potion was brewed and used heavily by volunteer wizards and witches employed by the Statute of Secrecy Task Force, to help address the issue of the Calamity in the 2010s. It allowed the drinker to boost the magical power of their spell casts, and was particularly practical when dealing with Confoundables and engaging in Wizarding challenges in Fortresses.
The Invigoration Draught was a potion which presumably boosted the drinker's energy. Fifth-year students of Potions class were required to brew an Invigoration Draught, which was supposedly rather easy to do when left alone.
During this assignment, Harry Potter did better than usual in Potions class and felt secure that his correctly-brewed potion would manage to finally earn him an 'E'. Professor Severus Snape, however, had been angered the previous day by Potter and maliciously smashed Harry's phial of potion, thereby making it impossible to mark the potion. When Harry returned to his cauldron to fill a new flask, he discovered that Hermione Granger had vanished his potion, having believed him to be finished with it.
Members of the Ministry of Magic's Beast Division, such as Mathilda Grimblehawk's partner, would brew this potion using Alihotsy leaves, dried billywig stings, Peppermint, Stewed Mandrake, and Infusion of Wormwood. They would later consume this potion to assist them in their investigations.
The term Foundable was used by the Ministry of Magic to refer to people, creatures, objects, and even memories displaced all over the Muggle world during the Calamity. Foundables were stuck in place by a piece of chaotic magic, called a Confoundable, thus threatening to expose the wizarding world and in potential serious breach of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy.
The Statute of Secrecy Task Force, created as a response to the Calamity, was tasked to investigate and contain this threat and prevent outbreaks of magic from being noticed by Muggles by retrieving all Foundables on the Registry: a listing of all the missing Foundables known to the Ministry.
Traces of Foundables could be detected in an area with the Trace Charm or the Tonic for Trace Detection.
A Portkey Portmanteau was a locked, Muggle-proof decorative box that contained a Portkey. They could be unlocked by using the proper keys and keeping them moving.
In the 21st century, Portkey Portmanteaus were distributed by the Ministry of Magic to members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force to assist with the efforts to address the Calamity.
In the 21st century, the Statute of Secrecy Task Force used them to access various challenges that were related to the Calamity.
During the 1995–1996 school year, the Hogwarts High Inquisitor Dolores Umbridge interrogated Professor Sybill Trelawney during her Divination classes about her skills in divination, which included requesting her to predict the future with rune stones, along with the crystal ball and tea leaves.
During the Calamity which occurred throughout the 2010s, these mysterious magical stones started appearing throughout the wizarding world. They allowed volunteer members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force to participate in magical challenges in Fortresses, such as duelling Death Eaters and other Dark wizards, or fighting aggressive and dangerous beasts, such as Acromantulas, Erklings, pixies and werewolves. Many different runestones existed which allowed individuals to enter all sorts of challenges in Fortresses.
Mathilda Grimblehawk (fl. 1999) was a witch employed at the British Ministry of Magic as an investigator of creature-related incidents. During her years at the Ministry, she dealt competently with wizards, Muggles and even centaurs alike.
Mathilda Grimblehawk was born somewhere in the British Isles, into the wizarding Grimblehawk family. During her formative years, she attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where she was known to have taken Potions. She presumably also took and excelled in Care of Magical Creatures, given her future career as a Magizoologist.
After she left school, she eventually joined the Ministry of Magic, where she became an investigator for the Beast Division. Along with her partner, she helped investigate several cases involving magical beasts. Their first case together involved an attack on Gordon Horton, Quidditch keeper for the Chudley Cannons. She believed the Cannons to be the best Quidditch team in the league, despite their performance last season.
Other cases on which she worked included the disruption at the Leaky Cauldron, the attack on Don Harrison's construction crew, the story from the Siren's Rest's landlord of a Welsh lake monster, the disappearance of Bilius Finbok, the investigation in the sewers of London, and the fire at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
According to Gethsemane Prickle, she once, during the course of her duties, decided she would taste a Draught of Living Death before administering it to a magical creature. Mathilda begrudgingly admitted to it, saying that it had "only happened once".
Mathilda Grimblehawk during the Calamity
By 2018, Mathilda was working with the newly-created Statute of Secrecy Task Force to aid them in dealing with the results of the Calamity. As a Magizoologist, she ministered several courses for its members interested in pursuing a career as Magizoologists, including an intensive, week-long one centred on how to ride on a Kelpie. As a bat-expert, she also helped to improve members' insight into the Bat-Bogey Hex.
Mathilda Grimblehawk possessed a great enthusiasm for the subject of Magizoology and great fondness for magical creatures of all kinds. She was also very friendly and sociable, as she delighted in the chance to travel and meet new people as part of her work, and apparently greatly enjoyed her partner's company. In at least the early 2020s, she dated a witch named Aisha, and even though she disliked Aisha's mother, she did not tell Aisha this, knowing she would be unhappy with it, further showing her caring nature.
Cerberus Langarm was born into a family of unknown wizarding descent likely sometime in the mid- to late 20th century.
Sometime after his seventeenth birthday, Cerberus joined the Ministry of Magic in London, where he worked as an Officer in the Magical Law Enforcement Squad. He passed intelligence regarding reports of creature-related incidents to the Beast Division in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures and lent his authority as a lawman to Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner. On occasion, he would also accompany them to secure the areas where wild beasts was believed to be located in order to prevent further injuries, and assisted the investigators of said division by making investigative inquiries and retrieving and examining evidence for them.
At some point, Cerberus became an Auror in the British Auror Office, where he worked to capture Dark wizards alongside among others Mordecai Berrycloth, Dorian Fungbury and Penelope Fawley, under the command of the Head of the department, Harry Potter, and became a celebrated Auror himself. In less dangerous times with a low amount of dark magical activity to combat, however, Aurors would also be tasked with patrolling the perimeters of magical creature reserves to ward off poachers.
Following the outbreak of the Calamity, Cerberus joined the Calamity Management Team in the training of those of the agents of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force that wanted to pursue the same career as himself, and in would later host the Forum Quorum, where his advice on the health benefits of proper rest before and after battle benefited at least some members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force in attendance. He would also eventually hold a course in self-defensive spellwork that would give them an advantage in the field. He also was assigned with overseeing the Resilience Training of the department's recruitment programme.
Known to take great pride in his position as an Officer of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Cerberus Langarm was a diligent, tough-minded individual, known to take his duties seriously and maintained an overall professional and largely courteous demeanour. Decisive in both thought and deed, he was above all else a man of action, often reaching for his wand to solve a problem rather than reason his way around it. One such example took place during his time working with the Beast Division, whereupon Cerberus agreed to help to investigate the secret owlery of Bilius Finbok, and was so quick to instinctively break down the door with a spell that he failed to realise that his co-workers had already unlocked it.
He also had a somewhat old-fashioned and naive outlook on magical creatures, employing a "curse-to-kill" policy similar to the one for which the MACUSA used to be well-known for back in the 1920s when facing those he regarded as particularly dangerous. He also possessed a dry wit, and was not immune to the finding of amusements at other people's expense, as seen when he delegated the task of going through the accounts ledger from Slug & Jiggers Apothecary in Diagon Alley to Mathilda and her partner, telling her to "enjoy", despite the fact that he knew she was no more fond of paperwork than himself.
Proud to a fault, he was also embarrassed about some of his own shortcomings and hence, reluctant to acknowledge them in front of other people, such as his fear of snakes.
His first name is the Latin version of Kerberos (Κέρβερος), the three-headed dog which in Greek legend guarded the entrance to Hades. His last name appears to be a pun on "long arm", as in the idiom long arm of the law, which is used to refer to the police.
Omar Abasi was a wizard who worked as a healer at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, working on the first floor and tended to patients suffering from creature-induced Injuries, an area at which he was an expert.
At some point in his life, Omar successfully underwent the required tutelage to become a fully-fledged Healer and were eventually successful at obtaining a position at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries in London, where he worked in the "Dangerous" Dai Llewellyn Ward for Serious Bites on the first floor, specialising in creature-induced injuries.
At some point in his career, Omar was drafted in for conjecture by the Beast Division in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures at the Ministry of Magic, wherein he would lend its investigators his expertise and give his opinion on cases they were working on. At one point, he attended to Chudley Cannons' keeper Gordon Horton after he was attacked at the Chudley Cannons's training ground and diagnosed him with a mild concussion. He also noted that Horton's kit had been badly torn, likely by sharp claws.
His observation was indeed correct, as the investigators from the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures discovered Mr Horton had been attacked by a Hippogriff.
He later used the Memory Charm to erase the memories of the Muggle Laura Thorn after she had found about a Mountain troll.
In the 2010s, Omar spent a week being shadowed by a Calamity Investigator from the Statute of Secrecy Task Force, showing them a variety of magical injuries. He had the Calamity Investigator observe a wide spectrum of injuries, from simple Bowtruckle scratches to the disastrous aftermath of uncontrolled spells, helping them gain knowledge of healing and helping to reduce the time they took to brew Healing Potions.
Sage Bragnam was a Scottish wizard and a magical historian specialising in examining artefacts and runes; he worked in the capacity of Head Curator of the Department of Magical Artefacts at the British Ministry of Magic.
He assisted the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures with expert opinion during their investigations related to magical beasts.
Born into a family of unverified magical pedigree, Sage Bragham was born in Scotland and attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry during his formative years where he was sorted into Ravenclaw House. He was a good student, and took a particular interest in more theoretical studies, such as History of Magic and the Study of Ancient Runes, both of which he would later specialise in as an adult. He was also known to have studied Arithmancy.
In adulthood, Sage became an accomplished magical historian, specialising in examining magical artefacts and the interpretation of runes. Eventually, he found employment at the British Ministry of Magic, where he was hired by the Ministry's research wing and assigned to the Department of Magical Artefacts, where he would eventually rise to the position of Head Curator. Due to his knowledge on magical creatures, he would also occasionally be called on to assist with the investigations into creature-related incidents by the Beast Division in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. Having held onto his old house tie, at some point, he placed it in his office. An avid Quidditch fan, he was a strong supporter of the English team Tutshill Tornados, owning a souvenir programme signed by no less a person than the famed seeker Roderick Plumpton himself. He eventually also found himself becoming a slightly reclusive activist in the Witches' Holistic Institute for Friends of Fairies, of which only he and Winifred Whittle were members.
Sometime later, a research assistant at the Auror Office by the name of Grim Fawley greatly ran through and successfully transcribed an ancient tome that had, until that moment, proven too difficult to translate. Greatly impressed by the man's skill in rune translation and ancient languages, Mr. Bragnam, who decided that he were being wasted with the Aurors, tried to have him transferred to his own department; only to learn, to his dismay, that his wife had already persuaded him to pursue a career as an Unspeakable in the Department of Mysteries.
After five prominent members of the magical community in Great Britain went mysteriously missing in 2015, Mr. Bragnam lent his expertise to the efforts being made to find them by joining the council that oversaw the search lead by the Head of the Auror Office, Harry Potter.. After several months without any results, even after the lead Auror on the case had even borrowed creatures from the Magizoologist Mathilda Grimblehawk in the Beast Division, the Ministry came under a lot of pressure to find them. Still and all, it would take at least a couple of years before the Ministry decided to hold a Public Hearing to discuss a motion to terminate the London Five investigation; during which Grim Fawley, the husband of one of the missing individuals; made a stirring speech where he urged the Ministry to keep the investigation open. By then, however, the whole investigation became a very involved and political affair, and after the Aurors failed to come up with any evidence regarding their whereabouts, the council finally determined that it was time to close the investigation, with Sage himself later noting that there was numerous unseen reason behind the decision.
Sage had short reddish-brown hair with a fairly large bushy beard, with brown eyes and white skin. He often wore a brightly coloured striped scarf with a beige coat.
Sage was a fairly sociable individual, and was friendly with many of his colleagues and co-workers, such as Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner, and was always happy to help them if called upon to do so, having more than once been called in for consultation by the Beast Division during investigations into creature-related incidents, once even agreeing to go through the entire accounts ledger from Slug & Jiggers Apothecary in Diagon Alley for them. He had a very dry sense of humour, being amused by bad puns relating to the objects he was called in to examine and proved himself to be open-minded, as seen by how, rather than being prejudiced against non-wizards, on the contrary was rather fascinated by the creative ingenuity of Muggles. A compassionate man, he proved himself to have a vested interest in the well-being of his peers, telling Grimblehawk to be careful while she was looking for dangerous creatures. He was also a man of action, at least to the extent where he was wiling to go to great lengths to help bring a resolution to catastrophe, as shown when he joined the council tasked with overseeing the investigation into the London Five.
Gethsemane Prickle (fl. 2003 - 2020) was a British witch and specialist in Herbology and Potions who, in the course of her work for the British Ministry of Magic, became Head of the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. Gethsemane Prickle lived to be at least 61 years old.
Born into a family of unknown wizarding descent, Gethsemane Prickle was born somewhere in the British Isles and presumably attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry during her formative years, as is the case with nearly all magical children born in the wizarding community of Great Britain. In adulthood, Madam Prickle became an accomplished Herbologist and potioneer, and eventually, she found employment at the British Ministry of Magic, where she was hired by the Ministry's research wing and was assigned to the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. She was not invited to join the Order of the Phoenix during the two uprisings of Lord Voldemort, but she would later point out that even so; "there were other - and some might say better - ways to combat the Dark Lord," showing that she did indeed participate in the anti-Voldemort movement.
Later in her career, she would eventually find herself called in for consultation by the Beast Division more than once, and assist among others Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner in solving investigations tied to creature-related incidents.
At some point prior to 2006, she learned that a woman by the name of Penelope Padgett had joined the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and sent a memo to the Head of the Auror Office, Harry Potter, and tried unsuccessfully to warn him about her, suspecting that she had ill-intentions, as her parents had been strong and outspoken supporters of Lord Voldemort during the Second Wizarding War. Having carried out her duties to the satisfaction of her superiors for a number of years, she was eventually promoted to Head of Department by 2019.
After the Ministry of Magic became the Calamity World Centre in the wizarding world, she went on to help prepare members of the newly-created Statute of Secrecy Task Force who sought a career as Magizoologist prepare for the threat they would be facing. Apparently occupying a role of leadership, she he was in a position to demand that such individuals had to build an immunity to the stings from a Billywig in order to "earn their stripes" and join the task force. She would later on task one of them with sorting out an infestation of Doxies from the drapes somewhere at the Calamity World Centre, which would improve their spell-casting to the point of making it easier to hit evasive foes. At some point, she would also advise at least one of the members of the aforementioned task force to live among centaurs. While this went horribly wrong, it did help said individual in acquiring many important survival skills.
Gethsemane had medium length grey hair, white skin and green eyes with thin brown-rimmed glasses. She often wore a bright red beaded necklace with many brightly coloured bangles and rings on her arms and hands.
While rather stern compared to associates such as Myra Curio and Sage Bragnam, being often brief and to-the-point and impersonally addressing those around her by their surnames, Gethsemane nevertheless maintained a fairly courteous and very professional demeanour around her co-workers, and was even known to have exchanged the occasional quip with those she got well along well with, such as Mathilda Grimblehawk, A straight-laced, conventional woman, she was known to have a strong dislike of aberrant developments during the course of her duties, such as when he passive-aggressively voiced her discontent to Grimblehawk and her partner with being sent a "bag of bones" to examine, only letting it slide without rebuking them because the former Magizoologist complimented her intellect. Secure in her own judgement and never shy about letting her voice be heard, she did not allow Harry Potter's celebrity status to colour her opinion, as seen by how openly critical she was of his decision to vouch for Penelope Padgett's promotion to the Auror Office, given her parents' status as Death Eaters.
She later transferred to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, where she became an Officer in the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office. In this capacity, she also assisted members the Statute of Secrecy Task Force tackling the Calamity.
Born into a wizarding family that resided somewhere in the British Isles, she grew up in a magical household. During her formative years, she received her magical education, presumably by attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, like most magical children in their wizarding community. She excelled in Muggle Studies.
Sometime after her seventeenth birthday, Myra joined the Ministry of Magic in London, and eventually began working for the Muggle Liaison Office in the Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes. A respected authority on the subject of Muggle Relations and the Muggle world in general, Myra was known to have been called upon to lend her expertise to her colleagues, such as the ones in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, whom she would occassionally assist alongside Sage Bragnam, Gethsemane Prickle and Omar Abasi during investigations relating to creature-related incidents. Notably, Myra would sometimes help Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner of the Beast Division by examining Muggle objects they found in the field.
Presumably inspired to pursue a career that was more "hands-on" after having assisted of Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner with their field work, she eventually transferred to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and became a Magical Law Enforcement Officer, working for the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office.
Following the outbreak of the Calamity, she became part of the Ministry committee dedicated to gaining further insight into the origin and nature of the phenomenon. In due time, she began working with members of the then recently established Statute of Secrecy Task Force pursuing a career as an Auror to improve their spell casting.
An avid Muggle enthusiast who thoroughly enjoyed her job and the opportunity to work with other people, Myra was a friendly, well-meaning individual who were always happy to help out her colleagues, being friendly with people like Mathilda Grimblehawk, and her partner.
While mild-mannered, she was not timid, being sufficiently confident in her own abilities to want to pursue a job within magical law enforcement later on in her career, proving her resolve.
A witch capable of using an array of sophisticated spell-work when she was required to do so, Myra had to deal with a wide variety of jinxes, hexes and curses placed on Muggle artefacts after she switched positions.
The game was developed by Warner Bros. and NetEase under the Portkey Games umbrella and was first announced on 30 October 2019. It was released in the Chinese Mainland, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan regions on 9 September 2021, and was soft-launched in more territories on 31 March and 2 May 2023. It will be released worldwide in 2023.
Ten years after Harry Potter's legendary victory over Lord Voldemort at the Battle of Hogwarts, a young Muggle-born receives an unexpected visit from a giant of a man by the name of Rubeus Hagrid, who has come to deliver their letter of acceptance to attend Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Hagrid explains to them about the existence of the wizarding world and accompanies them to Diagon Alley where they purchase necessary supplies for their first year. Upon arriving, however, a mystery begins to unfold on the grounds when one of the first years, Ivy Warrington, goes mysteriously missing after the Sorting Ceremony. The player thus starts their numerous adventures at Hogwarts by finding Ivy first.
Players are able to customise their character, select their Hogwarts House, attend lessons, explore Hogwarts, and join the Duelling Club. The core of Magic Awakened's gameplay is a digital-collectible card-based RTS in which spells are in the form of cards obtainable from gacha spins. The game also features ballroom dancing styled by rhythm-action gameplay as well as Quidditch matches fashioned in interactive tap-to-dodge mechanics. House competitions are also introduced in Magic Awakened. House rivalry matches are held twice a day, ranging from duels to group challenges.
This individual was a Muggle-born witch or wizard who lived in the early 21st century. After being informed of their magical heritage by Rubeus Hagrid, they started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 2008.
This individual was born to a Muggle family between 1996 and 1997. During their childhood, their latent magical abilities often surfaced, which they believed was unusual, despite their parents being amused and not taking it seriously.
During the summer of 2008, Rubeus Hagrid, the Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, paid this student a visit and delivered the Hogwarts acceptance letter. Being a Muggle-born, they were escorted to Diagon Alley by Hagrid on his flying motorbike to purchase their school stuff. They first went to Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions to dress themselves up, and then Ollivanders to purchase their wand. Hagrid also invited them to the Eeylops Owl Emporium and gifted them an owl. When they were ready to return home, Hagrid's motorbike had trouble starting, so they used the London Underground.
When this student arrived at King's Cross Station on 1 September, they were unsure how to find Platform Nine and Three-Quarters. Just then, Harry Potter, whose identity was unknown to them, tapped them on the shoulder and instructed them to run straight into the wall between Platform Nine and Ten. They successfully boarded the Hogwarts Express and arrived at Hogsmeade station, after which they crossed the Great Lake on a boat with other first-years and reached the Hogwarts Castle.
Headmistress McGonagall led the new students into the Great Hall and delivered a speech, mentioning a grumpy ghoul having taken up residence in an empty classroom on the third floor, and assuring students that while they would hopefully never face such evil as in the Battle of Hogwarts, should challenges arise, the joint forces of them would be truly powerful. The Sorting Ceremony followed, during which this student were sorted into a House they preferred. Ivy Warrington was at first not present at the ceremony, but she was later brought forward by Hagrid, who explained she had gotten distracted by bushes outside the castle, and was sorted into the same House. After the ceremony, this student enjoyed the Start-of-Term Feast and got a good night's rest.
For their first lessons at Hogwarts, this student studied the Levitation Charm in Professor Flitwick's Charms class and brewing the Hair-Raising Potion in Professor Slughorn's Potions class. Between the classes, they heard several students in a corridor talking about Ron Weasley's defeat of a troll using nothing but the Levitation Charm in his first year. When the students blocked Cassandra Vole's way to Potions class, she brusquely told them to move.
In Potions class, when rat tails were missing, this student managed to retrieve some from the Dungeons, but encountered an Acromantula, which they quickly defeated.
After classes, this student witnessed several other students practising advanced Transfiguration spells in their common room, which inspired them to visit the library to learn more spells. There, they saw Robyn Thistlethwaite attempting to cast Sectumsempra and Incarcerous on a copy of The Monster Book of Monsters, but she didn't quite succeed and the book was angered. Hagrid came, picked up and calmed the book down, and suggested the first-years visit the Duelling Club to master the incantations. There, they gave duelling a try, opposing Cassandra Vole and Fischer Frey.
When this student visited the Forbidden Forest, they met Ivy who was there to collect some potion ingredients for Daniel Page. Kevin Farrell didn't feel safe but Ivy said the only things they should look for were some Jobberknoll feathers, snowdrop and sage. The three found some thyme right away, and this student and Ivy decided to go further into the forest to look for the other ingredients. During their adventure, they encountered some magical creatures and an individual battling a Norwegian Ridgeback, which they also had to fight after the said individual Disapparated. They found some snowdrop right where the dragon had been.
This student met Robyn and Kevin at a school ball, who had been dancing together and encouraged them to also invite a partner to dance. They asked either Ivy or Daniel and danced a waltz.
At night, this student and other two students met Professor McGonagall, who had discovered that Ivy went missing. On the Grand Staircase, they met Robyn Thistlethwaite who was looking for Ivy as well and had already arranged a search party. The party consisted of Robyn, Daniel and Kevin, who had met in the library. Daniel was definite he wouldn't want to risk wandering around the castle in the middle of the night, but Kevin was convinced to do the search with them.
The students arrived at the Potions Classroom and Robyn liberated several spiders, which took a while for them to defeat. They went back to the revolving Grand Staircase and encountered Peeves, who stirred up another fight. Kevin got lost in the process, and Daniel came to call them back. Suddenly, they saw Mr Filch, and in a panic, they entered the Charms Classroom which had a "KEEP OUT" sign on the door. There, they encountered another copy of The Monster Book of Monsters, and to make things worse, Robyn used the Engorgement Charm on it to get a better look. When the book was finally struck down, Robyn was nowhere to be seen either.
They arrived at the seventh-floor corridor beside the Troll Tapestry, and when this student thought about the situation and paced back and forth, they accidentally triggered the door to the Room of Requirement. Ivy was found in the room and told her story of feeling being followed and looking for a place to hide, and judging by how Ivy seemed to be oblivious to the details, they thought she might have been cursed. Before leaving, they discovered a trunk with the word "WW", and when it was left alone, a white hand reached out from it.
In the common room, Ivy showed Daniel how to properly cast the Levitation Charm, and they also tried the Hardening Charm and the Disarming Charm. When Daniel went to retrieve his wand, he saw an object inside a secret hole in a wall, which turned out to contain a portrait of a small knight. Lottie realised it wasn't moving, and a voice emanated from it saying "help me". This student used the Revealing Charm and revealed chains trapping the knight. Just then, Peeves showed up and tried to destroy the portrait, but was defeated by them. The chains were broken, allowing the knight to travel among other portraits. He introduced himself as Gossamer, who was cursed and hidden away for years, and he was delighted to become the students' "loyal friend and dutiful guide" by moving through other portraits to update and alert them. He then went off to visit his old friends.
The portraits around the castle became upset because of Gossamer's mischievous activities. An angry wizard's portrait recalled how the portraits had decided to remove Gossamer from the general population, and that a student had done the lock on his portrait. In order to repair the man's portrait frame, Daniel decided to unlock Filch's tool chest, but released some rats instead. This student quickly took them down, and helped repair the portrait. Daniel and Ivy had a difference of opinion on the treatment that Gossamer had received. This student agreed with Ivy, but were worried that Gossamer would be locked up again if he caused more trouble.
They and their friends found Gossamer, who said a witch or wizard he had been talking to went missing and suggested them organise a search party. This student and Daniel didn't think it was necessary because the said witch or wizard had probably intended to get away from him, which left Gossamer heart-broken. They were soon discovered by Filch, whose contraption malfunctioned and released a trio of Red Caps, who were defeated by them. Gossamer was moved and acknowledged they were his friends. When he suggested himself being put in a more secluded place, they placed him in their common room.
One morning, this student were having breakfast with their friends when Robyn mentioned Gossamer would show her a secret passage to the kitchens. Kevin received his first copy of the Daily Prophet, which was rudely summoned by Fischer Frey. They then fought the twins, who claimed afterwards that they've made not only one, but two enemies. Kevin read from the newspaper that the Ministry had had to Obliviate over four hundred Muggles after the statues in Trafalgar Square had hopped off their pedestals and danced a jig, which had probably been the act of NOTME. When Robyn and Kevin left, they and Daniel further discussed the organisation's intention of making magic known to everybody, before Cassandra came in and made fun of him, but was then confronted by Ivy. When Daniel joined the face-off, he was threatened by Cassandra to be locked up in Azkaban, and then Cassandra left, throwing Ivy another snide remark. Soon, this student and Daniel realised Ivy was gone too.
When the two caught up with Ivy, she cast a Vanishing Spell and Vanished a suit of armour. This student asked her whether she intended to aim at Cassandra with the spell, but she had no idea how she could do it and couldn't remember where she had learned it. Then Professor Longbottom walked in and gave the three of them (except Cassandra) detention, during which they had to polish every suit of armour without using magic. After Longbottom left, the armours suddenly moved and attacked them. It turned out to be Peeves who had controlled them.
Daniel Page was a British or Irish half-blood wizard who began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 2008.
A Muggle newspaper reporting the arrest of Daniel's family
Daniel was born and raised somewhere in the British Isles between 1996 and 1997. He was the third child and youngest son of a Muggle father and a witch named Kaleena, and was raised alongside his older brother Reggie and sister Esme. The only one of the three kids to possess magical ability, Daniel nevertheless attended a Muggle primary school prior to receiving his letter of acceptance from Hogwarts.[citation needed]
Once when Esme was angered by her father giving her a teddy bear for Christmas when she was already seventeen, she took Daniel to go skating, which made them extremely happy.
Daniel Page visiting his mother in prison
While apparently loving, Daniel's childhood were still marred by controversy from an early age, marked by the illicit activities of their father and, in due time, also Reggie, who was a Squib. At some point, they were eventually cornered by the Muggle police and arrested. Daniel's mother was also apprehended when she apparently used magic to help, and was sentenced to Azkaban due to violation of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy. The family's arrest was covered by a Muggle newspaper, dubbing them "The Bloody Pages", after which Daniel, who was now left in the care of his older sister, found school to be anything but fun. He was occasionally allowed to visit his mother in prison and her arrest apparently left him with a deep feeling of resentment towards the Ministry for how they had sentenced his mother, despite there never being any evidence to cement their claim of Kaleena's allegiance to NOTME.
Daniel never flew on a broomstick until he went to Hogwarts.
Daniel finally arrived at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry when he was eleven. He did so with a sigh of relief, as few witches and wizards read Muggle newspapers and hence, nobody knew him, taking off a lot of the pressure he had been under after all that happened. On 1 September 2008, he travelled to the school via the Hogwarts Express and attended the Sorting Ceremony, being sorted into the same house as Lottie Turner, Ivy Warrington and an unidentified student.
Upon arriving at school, Daniel came off as a solitary, studious young wizard that often preferred focusing on his academics over interacting with other people. When he befriended, among others, Robyn Thistlethwaite and Ivy Warrington, he became significantly more open and sociable.
He also kept well-informed on the goings-on in the wizarding community, to the point that he was very familiar with the notorious group known as NOTME. Following his mother's imprisonment after her violation of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy, he grew to view it as a "stupid law".
He expressed the belief that while they should not necessarily go around flaunting their abilities to the masses, he nevertheless believed that keeping magic from the Muggle world entirely as a selfish thing to do. He was apparently blind to the extent to which permitting magic around non-wizards could be exploited for nefarious purposes. As such, he was known to dislike the British Ministry of Magic. The source of this belief and resentment was apparently his mother being imprisoned under the accusation of being associated with NOTME despite there being no concrete evidence of this other than Kaleena performing magic in front of Muggles to save Daniel's father and brother. Daniel's clearly disliked that despite his mother having no wish to hurt the Muggles arresting her family, she was still accused of being a criminal and sentenced to Azkaban.
Lottie was born in 1996 or 1997 to Ambrose Turner. During her youth, the father and daughter would often paint together. In winters, they would build snowmen and decorate them with scarves and hats, and after they went home, Ambrose would prepare hot cocoa with mint, and they would bake cookies.
Lottie started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 2008. On 1 September, she travelled to the school via the Hogwarts Express, and was sorted into the same House as Daniel Page, Ivy Warrington and an unidentified student.
When Robyn was young, her family celebrated Chinese New Year. After Robyn began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, her mother wanted her to celebrate the festival as usual and sent her a recipe of Singing Hot Pot.
In the 2010–2011 school year, Robyn made the house Quidditch team.
Cassandra was Sorted into Slytherin house when she started attending Hogwarts at the age of eleven in 2008. She was soon engaging in bullying her fellow students, including Daniel Page.
She overheard Daniel speaking to a friend one day about how he thought hiding magic from Muggles was wrong. Cassandra began teasing Daniel, asking if he wanted to be in the paper or be a criminal. Cassandra thought Muggles to be "silly" and frightened of their own shadows. Daniel objected, saying she would be afraid of magic if she didn't have it.
Cassandra worked out that he had a Muggle in the Page family, and he told her to shut up. Daniel's friend didn't think Cassandra was worth it, and Ivy Warrington asked if she didn't like non-magic people. Cassandra, however, instantly told her she was not a supremacist, and that she had an uncle who was a Muggle and she thought he was hilarious.
Cassandra left, but Ivy ran after her and started duelling her. Ivy used Evanesco and nearly hurt Cassandra. Professor Longbottom intervened and gave detention to Ivy and her friends.
Later that evening, Cassandra, Colby and Fischer Frey snuck out to the Library. Daniel, Ivy and their friend found out and went to check out why. They watched her until one of the twins noticed. Cassandra then told Daniel's friends she had found out about Daniel's family who had been sent to prison. Daniel then began duelling Cassandra.
Cassandra lost the duel, and told Daniel it wasn't over and that he couldn't be trusted.
Cassandra had a mean-spirited and conceited personality, and enjoyed belitting those she perceived as below her with her friends, such as Daniel Page.
She disliked the sport of Quidditch and enjoyed Herbology.
Despite her posh and arrogant bearing, she was not entirely heartless, and was delighted when Colby Frey gifted her a scarf he personally made for her on Christmas. When Colby Frey's scarf was mocked by his brother Fischer, Colby fled away in mortification, and Cassandra chased after Colby to console him, stating that even if it was not as expensive or high-quality as Fischer's gift, the sentiment mattered to her much more than Fischer's gift. Furthermore, despite her haughty personality, Cassandra was by no means a witch with anti-Muggle sentiment, even revealing to have a Muggle uncle she found hilarious, but caused her to think Muggles were "silly".
Colby's gift scarf
Ivy was born to a Muggle father. She had a grandmother who was a witch. She also had a sister named Winifred Warrington, who was also a witch.
Ivy first showed signs of magic when she was four or five years old.
Ivy watching her sister accidentally vanish
She and her sister were accepted into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, however, Winifred was not allowed to attend because their father feared her unpredictable magic could hurt someone. Ivy promised to speak to the professors so they could speak with her father to make him change his mind, but Winifred was resentful and stubborn about not being allowed to attend, and accused Ivy of not caring about her. Ivy tried to reason with her, but Winifred attempted to use Evanesco on Ivy's school trunk so she could not go to Hogwarts as well, which backfired and caused Winifred to vanish. Their grandmother tried to help her forget what happened by using a Memory Charm. However, it caused her to wholly forget about Winifred. Ivy had an ability to vanish, and would do so even when she didn't intend to. It was unknown when she manifested this ability.
At the age of eleven, Ivy began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. During the Sorting Ceremony, Ivy went missing. She was sorted at a later time into the same house as Daniel Page, Lottie Turner and an unidentified student.
At the age of eleven, he and Fischer began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in Slytherin house. They befriended Cassandra Vole, and she led their group in bullying their fellow students including Daniel Page.
They went to the Library one night to find a newspaper article about Daniel. Daniel, Ivy Warrington and their friend found out that they had broken curfew and went to find out why. They watched the group at a distance, until Colby noticed and told Cassandra.
Colby had a mean-spirited personality and enjoyed bullying others with his friends.
He was known to enjoy Herbology, handcraft and poetry, and he disliked History of Magic which he was not good at.
In this game, you can explore different parts of the Harry Potter world, customise them with Lego models, and play as many different characters. You can also create you own models and characters. Your goal is to collect chocolate frogs. When you collect enough, you can do a challenge. Upon completing a challenge, you unlock more models, worlds, and characters. There are many more worlds in this game than the previous one, some of which include Knockturn Alley, Gringotts Bank, and the Chamber of Secrets itself.
The game does not state it explicitly, but the rosters and the fact that the World Cup follows the Hogwarts school year in this game indicates that the game is set during Harry Potter's third year, the 1993–1994 school year. Furthermore, because the books have not named all of the members of the Hogwarts House teams, the video game has filled in the gaps as follows, circa Harry's third year. It is possible that J. K. Rowling provided the names, as she has been known to participate in multimedia projects, such as the Harry Potter Trading Card Game.
Among the unique features of Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup is the ability to control Chasers. In fact, most of the gameplay in terms of time centres around the Chasers and Keepers.
Aside from basic flying, Chasers can direct passes and shots using the Control Stick and also charge shots, passes and tackles. After each goal, play restarts by having the Keeper of the team who just conceded passing the Quaffle back into play as the 10 points (more in case of multi-goal Team Special Moves) are tallied.
At the top of the screen and attached to both teams' scores is a Golden Snitch gauge, signalling both the teams' relative momentum and how close the climactic Snitch chase is. Teams can build this bar by completing basic passes, with charged passes generating more. The fastest way of doing this is by completing Combos – a special series of passes where the player can pass or shoot the Quaffle with a volley. Combos cap at 8 (with the counter listed onscreen) and the momentum generated is banked either after the player is not dispossessed after a period of time following the last pass or after the player scores.
When the two halves of the Snitch meet on the gauge, the Snitch is spotted and the control switches to the Seekers as they race after it. Each Seeker also has a boost metre based on how much momentum the team has accumulated during the match – if the team has accumulated more momentum, the boost metre will be larger. Successfully following the Snitch's path regenerates the boost metre faster, and successfully catching the Snitch, as always, awards 150 points and ends the game. Furthermore, the scores are locked in during the Snitch chase, meaning that no goals are scored during the chase
As the player progresses in the House Quidditch Cup and completes more drills, he or she also unlocks more features that also charge with momentum banked in the Snitch gauge:
The introduction features Harry and Oliver Wood dressed in their Gryffindor Quidditch team uniforms instructing the player on the basic rules and objectives of Quidditch. The player then chooses a House to play for in the Hogwarts Quidditch Cup by picking that team's Seeker. This Seeker (Harry Potter, Cedric Diggory, Cho Chang, or Draco Malfoy) then also offers tips, reminders, and status updates on the team's performance during the course of the game. Afterwards, the player competes in the Hogwarts Quidditch Cup, and when winning, the Quidditch World Cup.
Harry Potter as Gryffindor Seeker at the Hogwarts Quidditch pitch
Once the player chooses a House, the Seeker leads the player to the rest of the team. As in the books, the House Quidditch Cup is round-robin, but instead of dropping the player into a game with all features enabled, the features are introduced one by one through drills with the House team members, and drills must be completed before matches unlock. Firstly, two of the Chasers lead the player in passing and tackling/shooting drills before the Seeker leads the player (with the help of Madam Rolanda Hooch) in catching a Golden Snidget as Snitch-catching practice. At this point, the first House Quidditch Cup match is unlocked.
After the first match, one of the Beaters leads the player in a Beater drill, which unlocks the Bludger feature when completed. Following that, the remaining Chaser leads the player in a Dodging/Special Move drill, which unlocks Dodges and Special Moves once completed. At this point, the second match is unlocked.
Following the second match, the team's Keeper leads the player in a Combo drill, after which the final match is unlocked with all features enabled. After the final match, Albus Dumbledore, flanked by the Heads of Houses, awards the Quidditch Cup to the winning House, along with tickets to the Quidditch World Cup, as the victors celebrate and commemorate the moment with a wizard photograph that is framed in their House's common room.
The standings (and subsequently the winners as well) are determined not by wins and losses but by total points, which is also in effect during the World Cup.
Gryffindor's Team Special Move is called the Weasley Wangler. Alicia starts with the Quaffle with Fred and George flying in front of Alicia in an inverted V shape, and the Weasley Twins corral an oncoming Bludger and hit it back and forth between them to cover for Alicia. This scares off the opposing passing and special move Chasers, and the opposing Keeper is helpless to stop the Bludger hitting him as Alicia then scores into an open hoop and catches it on the other side.
Ravenclaw's Team Special Move, The Burdish of Raven, is the most offensively powerful of all the teams – even the national ones – as it is the only one that scores three times. First, the 3 chasers go up in the air, the passing and special move chasers gaze in awe as they loop and go down, as they pass, Davies punches the special move chaser, Burrow kicks the passing chaser, leaving the way clear for Stretton to shoot, then Burrow scores, and finally, Davies scores.
The Cedric Swoop'n'Swagger is quite a long move. First, they are in possession of the quaffle, when the passing and special move chasers from the other team are in hot pursuit of it. Preece fires the quaffle to Macavoy, avoiding the passing chaser, then Macavoy passes it to Applebee, who passes it to Macavoy who avoids the special move chaser, then she passes it to Preece who does a ground shot which the force lifts it up into the air so it goes in a hoop, then Macavoy passes it to Applebee, then she scores.
Note: Kevin Bletchley is the name given in software, but it may be meant to be Miles Bletchley.
The Zeeburger Slither is very brutal. All the players, except Malfoy and Bletchley knock the opponent passing and special move chasers out of the way with the tackle and shoot chaser screaming, then they use cobbing on the keeper (no penalty), Then Montague scores, Pucey kicks it to Flint, who scores it again.
Additionally, Edgar Cloggs, a ghost who haunts the Quidditch pitch, would be a training partner in Tackle & Shoot / Special Move drills.
The Hogwarts Quidditch Cup champions not only get to attend the Quidditch World Cup, but they also choose a team to support during a 16-game home-and-away round robin league campaign, with the team playing every other opponent twice – once at home and once at the other team's stadium. At this point, the player can also change the difficulty level, something that is not available during the Hogwarts Quidditch Cup. Each difficulty level corresponds to a broom. In ascending order of speed and difficulty: Comet 260, Nimbus 2000, Nimbus 2001 and Firebolt.
One of the unlockables in the game is the first appearance of the site of Quidditch's invention, Queerditch Marsh. This pitch is sloppily defined by a faded white oval on a relatively flat area of English marshland. Rickety stands rise from the oval's edges. Instead of constructed goal hoops, Chasers throw the Quaffle through large birds' nests in the two trees on either end of the pitch. A thin brook runs across the length of the oval.
Only Hogwarts teams may play on Queerditch Marsh.
Harry Potter- Quidditch World Cup PC All special moves of teams ( Ultra HD 4K 60 FPS )
Wonderbook: Book of Spells, or simply Book of Spells, is a video game/augmented reality book created by Sony and J. K. Rowling, released on 13 November, 2012 as part of the Pottermore partnership. Using the Playstation Eye Camera and the Wonderbook technology, Book of Spells provides an augmented reality experience, making it seem as if the events of the book are taking place around you. It is set up as a textbook, providing information on spells such as the Fire-Making Spell, Disarming Charm, Levitation Charm and Unlocking Charm as well as allowing readers to practise said spells. It also provides new content from J.K. Rowling, such as backstory on the book's various spells and new info on creatures. At the end of each chapter, a poem occurs describing a failed Hogwarts students' attempt at the spell in order to teach a lesson in a similar way to Aesop's fables.
Players have the opportunity to link the game to a  Pottermore account.
From the in-universe perspective, the player is a Hogwarts student and the Book of Spells is a book released by Miranda Goshawk and is 200 years old. It is kept in the Restricted Section of the Hogwarts Library.
Edit templates:
description | create | 
project | todolist | active users | links
Administrators, also called sysops, are active and regular users who have access to technical features that help with maintenance. Administrators are expected to respect and be familiar with policy as they are known and trusted members of the community. They can protect and delete pages, block other editors, and undo these actions as well. By default, these privileges are granted indefinitely and are only removed under exceptional circumstances involving high level intervention.
Administrators perform essential housekeeping chores that require the extra access administrators are entrusted with. Among them are watching the Articles for deletion debates and carrying out the consensus of the community on keeping or deleting these articles, keeping an eye on new and changed articles to swiftly delete obvious vandalism, and meeting user requests for help that require administrative access. Since administrators are expected to be experienced members of the community, users seeking help will often turn to an administrator for advice and information. In general, administrators acting in this role are neutral. They do not have any direct involvement in the issues they are helping people with.
Advanced
Advanced Search Options
19,384 results
movies
100K Pages
100K Images
1 Video
Wookieepedia is a wiki-based online encyclopedia that contains detailed information about the Star Wars universe, including movies, books, video games, characters, locations, technology, weapons, vehicles, and everything in between.

Founded in 2005, Wookieepedia has over 180,000 articles, covering everything from the…
You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reasons:
You can view and copy the source of this page.
Templates used on this page:
Return to Harry Potter.
For all individuals born in or circa the year 1980.
All items (6)
For all known individuals who attended the 1994 Quidditch World Cup.
All items (68)
For all individuals who attended the 2014 Quidditch World Cup final.
All items (30)
For all participants of the Attack at Godric's Hollow in 1997.
All items (5)
The individuals involved in the attempt to kill James, Lily and Harry Potter. This may vary from being involved in the event proper or the prelude thereof.
All items (7)
For all individuals who are, or were once an Auror.
All items (56)
For all known victims of the Serpent of Slytherin.
All items (8)
For all those who participated in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower.
All items (25)
For all individuals who participated in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.
All items (31)
This category contain those who who fought in the Battle of the Seven Potters.
All items (26)
For all wizards and witches who were considered "blood traitors" by prejudiced pure-blood supremacists.
All items (52)
For all forms that Boggarts were known to have taken (please note that nothing in this category is an actual Boggart).
All items (43)
All individuals linked romantically to Cho Chang.
All items (5)
For all individuals who engaged in the spreading of conspiracy theories.
All items (8)
For all individuals who had experienced the Cruciatus Curse.
All items (23)
All individuals who were attacked by Dementors at some point.
All items (11)
Individuals who attended the disciplinary hearing of Harry Potter on August 12, 1995.
All items (11)
For all members of Duelling clubs at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
All items (38)
All items (6)
The following individuals were members (or very strong allies) of Dumbledore's Army.
All items (45)
For all wizards who became masters of the Elder Wand.
All items (13)
